
Transcriber's Note: Minor typographical errors have been corrected
without note. Irregularities and inconsistencies in the text have
been retained as printed.

Words printed in italics are marked with underlines: _italics_.

The cover of this ebook was created by the transcriber and is hereby
placed in the public domain.




THE FORTY-THIRD REGIMENT

UNITED STATES COLORED TROOPS.


GETTYSBURG:
J. E. WIBLE, PRINTER, NORTH-EAST CORNER OF THE DIAMOND.
1866.




INTRODUCTION.


No apology can be necessary for the publication of the following
pages, as it is no unworthy or mercenary object they seek to obtain.
They have been elicited by request of numerous friends of the officers
of this regiment and of the colored troops, designed for their own
use; and their object is not simply to give succinct statements of
individual military history, or of any single command of the Colored
Troop, but to furnish, also, at the same time, an unanswerable
argument on the subject of this Troop, as an element in the military
service on the side of Freedom and the Union; their extraordinary good
discipline, efficiency and bravery, and the fact that they are very
susceptible of intellectual and moral culture. We present it in
compliance with the request that has been made, subservient to this
purpose.

    J. M. MICKLEY,
    _late Chaplain of the Regiment_.




COMMISSIONED OFFICERS

FORTY-THIRD REGIMENT

UNITED STATES COLORED TROOPS,

INCLUDING A BRIEF HISTORY OF THEIR MILITARY CAREER.


BREVET BRIG. GEN. S. B. YEOMAN.

This officer, formerly Colonel Commanding this Regiment, is a native
of Washington, Ohio. His great-grand-father, James Yeoman, served
with distinction as a Captain in the war of the Revolution, and his
grand-father as a First Lieutenant in the war of 1812.

Before entering the United States service the General was a sea-man,
whose experience of nautical life extends over a decade of years. He
started as a sailor before the mast at fifteen years of age. His first
voyage was on a whaling expedition of three years in the ship
"Alexander," which was wrecked on the South Island of New Zealand. The
boats, to which all fled for safety, became unmanageable; and not
until after suffering great hardships on the deep, he with a few
others were accidentally rescued. After this he made several voyages
to South America, Asia and Africa; and returned shortly before the
outbreak of the Rebellion. He at once determined to remain and
identify himself with the cause of the Union and its Free
Institutions.

He volunteered as a PRIVATE in Co. F. 22nd Ohio Volunteer Infantry
April 20th 1861, and was afterwards appointed First Sergeant of his
Company. With this command he continued in Western Virginia, under
General Rosencrans until it was discharged by reason of expiration
of term of service. At home he immediately commenced the work of
Recruiting; and returned again to the field September 15th 1861 as
CAPTAIN of Co. A. 54th Ohio Volunteer Infantry.

At Corinth, General Yeoman, then a Captain, was particularly selected
by Maj. General Sherman, to take command of ten picked men, and with
these to penetrate the Rebel lines in order to ascertain their forces,
and more especially the movements they were inaugurating. The task was
a perilous one; but he accomplished it with entire success, returning
with very valuable information, for which he obtained the hearty
thanks of the General in command and of the Department.

While gallantly in the discharge of duty he has received the following
wounds, viz.: In the battle of Shiloh, April 6th and 7th 1862,
slightly wounded in the breast and left leg; in the battle of Russell's
House, June 1862, wounded again in left leg; wounded in arm and
abdomen on different occasions on the picket line; in the battle of
Arkansas Post, January 10th and 11th, 1863, while in command of his
Regiment, severely wounded by a shell in right arm, almost entirely
severing the arm below the elbow. Amputation became necessary
immediately on the field; and after this he was conveyed to a Hospital
Boat on the Mississippi River, and finally reached home. For his
distinguished services he was appointed Major of his Regiment, but
such was the condition of his wound that any attempt to return to the
field was considered unadvisable, and he, therefore, respectfully
declined the promotion. He resigned on account of his serious loss.
This officer won an estimable name in his services with the Western
Army.

He was appointed Captain in the Veteran Reserve Corps, Commanding 6th
Co. 2nd Battalion, on duty in Cincinnati. In May 1864, he received
from the President of the United States the appointment of COLONEL of
this Regiment. Instead of reporting immediately to the command, he was
detailed by order of the War Department to Camp Casey, Virginia, as
_Superintendent of Recruiting Service_ and _Chief Mustering officer of
North East District of Virginia_. He continued in this office until
November 29th, 1864, when he rejoined this Regiment in the field, then
on the Bermuda Front, Virginia. He led this command in all the actions
after that date, including the triumphant capture of Richmond, April
3d, 1865. He has also been _Commanding Officer of 3d Brigade 1st
Division 25th Corps_.

He was promoted by the President of the United States to BREVET
BRIGADIER GENERAL OF VOLUNTEERS, "for gallant and meritorious
services during the war," to rank as such from the 15th day of March,
1865.

The following are engagements in which he has actively participated,
viz.: Shiloh, April 6th and 7th, 1862; Russell's House, June, 1862;
Easel's House, June, 1862; heavy skirmish at Corinth, July, 1862;
heavy skirmish at Holly Springs, July, 1862; Chickasaw Bayou, (lasting
six days,) December, 1862; Arkansas Post, January 10th and 11th, 1863;
siege of Vicksburg, July, 1863; capture of Richmond, April 3d, 1865
and in, at least, fifteen other different skirmishes not mentioned in
the above.

BREVET BRIGADIER GENERAL YEOMAN is an officer of ability and
experience in the active service, who has greatly distinguished
himself in action. He now carries the empty sleeve of his right arm as
the unmistakable mark of his devotion and valor.


BREVET COL. H. SEYMOUR HALL.

BREVET COLONEL H. SEYMOUR HALL, formerly Lieutenant Colonel
of this Regiment, and a native of Providence, Saratoga county New
York, is the only son of a very patriotic widow. His grand-father,
Moses Hall, was a soldier of the Revolution of 1776, and served his
country during the entire period of that eventful struggle. The
Colonel was pursuing a Scientific course in Genesee College, New York,
when the intelligence of the Rebel guns against Sumpter was
communicated to the North. With others of his collegiate companions he
immediately tendered his services to the Country, and was enlisted
April 24th, 1861, as a volunteer PRIVATE in Co. G. 27th
Regiment New York Volunteers, which Regiment was first commanded by
Colonel, now Major General Slocum, whose successor in the command was
Lieutenant Colonel, now Major General J. J. Bartlett. Upon the
organization of the Company he was chosen ENSIGN. He
afterwards was appointed SECOND LIEUTENANT, and then promoted
to CAPTAIN.

In the battle of Gaines' Hill, June 27th, 1862, he received a wound in
his left thigh by a musket ball. On account of his distinguished
services in that engagement he is specially spoken of by the
commanding officer of his Brigade, who in submitting names of officers
whose good conduct and gallantry, particularly in that action,
deserved mention, states: "H. Seymour Hall, Captain of Co. G. 27th New
York Volunteers, for coolness and intrepidity in the battle of Gaines'
Hill; and for displaying the traits of a good officer at all times."

January 15th, 1863, he became _Acting Assistant Inspector General_
on the staff of Brigadier General Bartlett, commanding 2nd Brigade
1st Division 6th Corps; and for his services in the battles of
Chancellorsville and Salem Heights, May 3d and 4th ensuing, he is
honorably mentioned in the report by that General commanding, who
states: "during the campaigns I received the most efficient aid from
Captain H. Seymour Hall, Acting Assistant Inspector General. He was
brave, energetic and untiring in his endeavors to promote the
efficiency of my command."

Upon the expiration of term of service of his Regiment he was formerly
mustered-out, but immediately re-commissioned Captain in the 121st New
York Volunteers, and continued on the staff as before. When Colonel
Upton became General Bartlett's successor in command of the Brigade,
he was placed on his staff. He is highly complimented in the report by
this latter officer of his command in the battle of Rappahannock
Station, November 7th, 1863. "From my own staff I received, in every
instance, prompt and gallant assistance, and to their united efforts
may be attributed, in a great measure, the promptness with which both
regiments re-formed inside the works. Captain H. Seymour Hall,
Assistant Inspector General, entered the rifle pits with the men."
After this engagement he was promoted to ACTING ASSISTANT ADJUTANT
GENERAL on the staff of this Brigade commander, which position he
held in connection with the other until his commission in this
Regiment.

It may not be improper to introduce here a few extracts of
communications setting forth the high appreciation of Colonel Hall for
his ability and bravery, by very competent Judges. Brigadier General
Jackson, Commander of 2nd Brigade, 2nd Division, 12th Corps, in his
letter addressed to Adjutant General of the State of New York,
requesting the appointment of Captain Hall to Colonel of the 145th New
York Volunteers, which Regiment was in his Brigade, and without a
Colonel, states: "I have known Captain Hall for the past fifteen
months, and consider him every way qualified to fill the above
mentioned position." Major General Slocum's endorsement on this paper
testifies: "I know Captain Hall to be a capable, efficient and
faithful officer, and most cordially unite with General Jackson in
this recommendation." Major General Slocum himself, also, in a letter
relating to the same subject, and addressed to the same Officer of
State, closes with the remarks: "I am well acquainted with him
(Captain Hall,) and know him to be a capable and efficient officer,
and think his appointment would be a great benefit to the service.
Captain Hall has no knowledge of my intention to recommend him for
this position, and in doing it I am only actuated by a desire to
improve the condition of the troops under my command." For some reason
or other, left unsatisfactory unexplained, the State Executive made no
appointment whatever. In consequence of this the Regiment alluded to
was obliged to forego its organization, and be consolidated with
others.

Captain Hall was appointed by the President LIEUTENANT
COLONEL of this Regiment, March 20th, 1864. After reporting at
Camp William Penn, Philadelphia, he completed the organization of its
1st Battalion composed of the first six Companies, with which he
joined the 9th Corps at Annapolis, Maryland, April 19th, 1864. He
commanded it through all the engagements in the Wilderness; and in the
memorable battle of the Mine before Petersburg, Virginia, July 30th,
1864, it was the charging Regiment which he led against the enemy's
works. With regard to his own gallantry in that terrible engagement,
the Commanding Officer of the 2nd Brigade, 4th Division, 9th Corps,
testifies: "Lieutenant Colonel H. Seymour Hall, Commanding 43d
Regiment United States Colored Troops, lost his right arm while
bravely leading his Regiment." Such was his anxiety that he reported
again for duty to his Regiment when his wound was but partially
healed. He was afterwards ordered to Camp Casey, Virginia, as
Commander of that _Recruiting Rendezvous_ and _Chief Mustering
Officer_ of the District of Columbia. He remained in this capacity
until March 20th, 1865, the date under order of discontinuing the
Rendezvous, when he returned to his Regiment, then on the front before
Richmond, Virginia. Immediately after the capture of Richmond, April
3d, 1865, he was detailed PROVOST MARSHAL of Manchester, Virginia. He
conducted this office with his usual great ability, and also with
perfect satisfaction to the Government.

He was appointed by the President of the United States COLONEL OF
VOLUNTEERS by Brevet "for gallant and meritorious services in the
service of the United States, to rank as such from the 13th day of
March 1865." This honor from the late lamented Chief Magistrate was
most fittingly awarded.

Colonel Hall was a member of General Court Martial in Camp on the
Chickahominy, Virginia, of which Brigadier General Pratt was
President, in May and June, 1862; Judge Advocate of General Court
Martial in Camp near Bakersville, Maryland, of which Brigadier General
Newton was President, in September, 1862; a member of Military
Commission also in Camp near Bakersville, Maryland, of which now
Brevet Major General Bartlett was President, in October, 1862; a
member of a Board of Officers to examine officers as to qualification
and fitness for their positions in the 1st Division, 6th Corps, of
which now Brevet Major General Torbert was President, in October,
November and December 1862; a member of General Court Martial in Camp
near White Oak Church, Virginia, of which Colonel Cake, 96th Regiment
Pennsylvania Volunteers was President, in January, 1863; a member of
General Court Martial at Headquarters of 2nd Brigade, 4th Division,
9th Corps, near Petersburg, Virginia, of which Brevet Brigadier
General Bates was President, in June and July, 1864, and President of
Military Commission for the Western District of Texas, convened at
Brownsville, Texas, which occupied the place of Civil Court, in August
and September, 1865. Upon the discharge of his Regiment he continues
in service, having reported under orders to Major General Wright,
Headquarters Department of Texas, who assigned him to duty as
Assistant Superintendent in the Freedmen's Bureau, under Brigadier
General E. M. Gregory, Assistant Commissioner of the Bureau in that
State.

The following are actions in which he has participated, a number of
which were the most important of any during the war, viz.: First Bull
Run, July 21st, 1861; West Point, May 7th, 1862; heavy skirmish at
Mechanicsville, May 21st, 1862; Gaines' Hill, June 27th, 1862;
Golden's Farm, June 28th, 1862; Charles City Cross Roads, June 30th,
1862; Second Bull Run, August 30th, 1862; Fredericksburg, December
13th, 14th and 15th, 1862; Chancellorsville, May 3d, 1863; Salem
Heights, May 3d and 4th, 1863; Gettysburg, July 1st, 2d and 3d, 1863;
heavy skirmish at Fairfield, Pennsylvania, July 7th, 1863; heavy
skirmish at Funkstown, Maryland, July 10th, 1863; heavy skirmish at
St. James' College, Maryland, July 13th, 1863; Rappahannock Station,
November 7th, 1863; Locust Grove, November 24th, 1863; Mine Run,
November 27th, 1863; Wilderness, May 4th, 5th, 6th and 7th, 1864;
Spottsylvania, May 7th to 15th, 1864; Tolopotomy Creek, May 19th and
20th, 1864; North Anna, May 22d and 23d, 1864; Cold Harbor, June 1st
to 3d, 1864; Old Church, June 10th, 1864; Siege of Petersburg, June
18th, 1864; Mine before Petersburg, July 30th, 1864; and capture of
Richmond, April 3d, 1865.

Brevet Colonel Hall has risen from a private to his present rank and
office by his excellent military talent, energy, intelligence and
gentlemanliness, and by his great gallantry in all the engagements in
which he has participated. These have been the hand-maids of his
success. He is a patriot who has accomplished a good work for his
country, and who also carries the empty sleeve--the same unmistakable
mark of superior devotion and valor.


MAJOR HORACE BUMSTEAD.

MAJOR HORACE BUMSTEAD of this Regiment is a native of Boston,
Massachusetts, and a regular graduate of Yale College, having
completed his course in that institution in 1863. He was a member of
the _Massachusetts Rifle Club_, which has contributed quite a
number of Field and Officers of other grades to our army during this
war, who are known as worthy commanders, distinguished for their
ability and bravery. In connection with this military organization he
held the position of Sergeant, and was afterwards promoted to Major.
Promotion could be secured only upon very creditable examination. N.
Willis Bumstead, Captain of the 45th Massachusetts Volunteers, a
brother of the Major's, is another representative of this patriotic
family.

Horace Bumstead was appointed by the President MAJOR of this
Regiment, April 8th, 1864. After reporting under order at Camp William
Penn, Philadelphia, he there completed the organization of the
remaining Companies, "H," "I" and "K," of the Regiment. He proceeded
with these in a Provisional Battalion to Havre-de-grace, Maryland, and
thence to the Defences of Baltimore and Washington, to assist in
checking the advance of the enemy, then threatening those cities.
Afterwards in command of these Companies, with detachments also
belonging to other Regiments, he proceeded to the front, joining his
own command August 3d, 1864, then on the line before Petersburg, Va.
In the absence of Colonel Yeoman, (now Brevet Brigadier General) doing
duty at Camp Casey, Va., and Brevet Colonel Hall, severely wounded in
the battle of July 30th, the command devolved upon him. He was
commanding officer of the Regiment in all the actions in which it
participated and other duties until Nov. 29th, ensuing--the date of
Colonel Yeoman's reporting. He has in fact been commanding officer
embracing a considerable period of its service, and was such at the
time of its muster-out at Brownsville, Texas, during its perilous Gulf
and Ocean voyage thence to New York, and up to its final discharge at
Phila.

Major Bumstead has participated in the following actions, viz.: Weldon
Railroad, Aug. 19th and 20th, 1864; Poplar Grove Church, Sept. 29th
and 30th, 1864; Hatchie's Run, Oct. 27th and 28th, 1864; heavy
skirmish on the Bermuda Front, in Dec. 1864; Farra's Island at Dutch
Gap Canal, January 25th, 1865; and capture of Richmond, April 3d,
1865.

He is an officer of fine ability, intelligence and bravery, and whose
very exemplary moral character made his connection with the service an
honor to the country.


SURGEON AI. WATERHOUSE.

SURGEON AI. WATERHOUSE of this command is a native of
Scarborough, Me., whose great-uncles, George, Nathaniel and Joseph
Waterhouse were soldiers of the war of the Revolution, and another
ancestor a soldier of the war of 1812. At the commencement of this
struggle he decided to abandon the practice of his profession at
Buxton, Me., and give his services to the country. The Medical Board
convened at Portland, by which he was examined, unanimously
recommended him for the position of SURGEON. July 24th, 1862,
when he joined the army at Harrison's Landing, Va., he was assigned to
the 7th Maine Infantry, 2d Div., 6th Corps. There was no vacancy for
full Surgeon at that time in the command, although his services were
much needed. On this account, and by the urgent request also of the
Governor of his State, he consented to accept temporarily the position
of Assistant Surgeon. However in the event of a vacancy he was to
obtain the position according to the examination he had passed. Owing
to circumstances, to say the least, very discreditable to the parties
in the case, and who possessed such plasticity of principle and low
estimate of honor, this vacancy was bestowed on another, whose
subsequent history proved him incapable of discharging its duties.
Surgeon Waterhouse suffered this wrong, uncomplainingly, and continued
at his post. His services in connection with his Regt., and also the
6th Me. Infantry, to which he had been temporarily assigned, are
spoken of with great satisfaction.

After an examination before the Surgeon's Examining Board of the Army
of the Potomac, he received the appointment of SURGEON of the
43d Regt. U.S. Colored Troops, March 8th 1864. He continued for a time
as Surgeon in charge of Camp William Penn, Phila., and then joined
this Regiment in the field, Aug. 3d, 1864. In connection with this
command, on _Operating Staff_, in charge of Field Hospitals and
Acting Senior Medical Officer of Brigades and Departments, he has been
frequently complimented for his proficiency and skill in difficult
cases of surgery, and for his sobriety and correct principles. Chief
Medical Officer Hall, of the 6th Corps, says: "I esteem Surgeon
Waterhouse well qualified, in regard to moral character, learning and
ability, to discharge the responsible duties of the position with
honor to himself and the service." Brigadier General Bates, commanding
1st Brig., 4th Div., 9th Corps, testifies of him: "For strict and
unswerving fidelity to duty, for sobriety and high toned morals, for
firm loyalty he has ever won the respect of those who knew him." Major
General Ferrero, commander of the Department of Bermuda Hundred, Va.,
compliments him after this manner: "In parting with this officer the
General Commanding desires to express his regret at parting with an
officer so long associated with him, and his appreciation of the
services he has rendered." Chief Medical Officer Surgeon Prince, says:
"I take pleasure in recommending Surgeon Ai. Waterhouse as a good
Physician and Surgeon. The Doctor served as Brigade Surgeon in my Div.
during the greater part of 1864, and, as such, displayed professional
and executive ability of a very high order; he was always noted for
his promptness and energy in the discharge of his duty."

The following are actions in which he has participated in the duty of
his Department, viz.: Second Bull Run, Aug. 30th, 1862; South
Mountain, Sept. 14th, 1862; Antietam, Sept. 17th, 1862;
Fredericksburg, Dec. 13th and 14th, 1862; Salem Heights, May 3d and
4th, 1863; Gettysburg, July 1st, 2d and 3d, 1863; heavy skirmish at
Fairfield, Pa., July 7th, 1863; heavy skirmish at Monterey House and
Waynesboro', July 5th, 1863; Locust Grove, Nov. 24th, 1863; Mine Run,
Nov. 27th, 1863; Weldon Railroad, Aug. 19th and 20th, 1864; Poplar
Grove Church, Sept. 29th and 30th, 1864; Hatchie's Run, Oct. 27th and
28th, 1864; heavy skirmish on the Bermuda Front, Dec. 1864; capture of
Richmond, April 3d, 1865.


CHAPLAIN J. M. MICKLEY.[1]

CHAPLAIN J. M. MICKLEY is a native of Adams county, Pa., near
the historic town of Gettysburg, and whose family connection have
always been justly celebrated for loyalty and patriotism. His
ancestors took a prominent part in the war of the Revolution, and also
in the war of 1812. Both his brother and himself, who are the only
sons of a patriotic widow, remained in the active field service until
the close of the Rebellion. He is a regular graduate of Franklin and
Marshall College, Lancaster, Pa., and of the Theological Seminary at
Mercersburg, Pa., and a regularly ordained Minister of the Gospel in
the Reformed Church of the United States.

          [1] Communicated by Colonel Hall commanding 43d United
          States Colored Troops.

He entered the service Dec. 2d, 1862, as Chaplain of the 177th Regt.
Pa. Infantry, and remained with this command until its muster-out.
After this he was appointed Chaplain of this Regt. In his connection
with this command he has shown himself fitted for that most delicate
and difficult position, an Army Chaplain. Month after month he has
labored most assiduously, by means of religious exercises, well
conducted schools, providing of excellent books and papers for the use
of the soldier, to contribute to the improvement of their mental,
moral and social condition; and the high esteem he has won for
himself, by his talent, piety, energy and bravery, from every officer
and man of this Regiment and also from Superior Officers and
Commandants, is ample proof of his peculiar fitness for the position.
To him two-thirds of the men of this command are indebted for their
proficiency in reading and writing. Through his disinterested labors,
also, thousands of dollars were saved by the men, and many families
kept from want. His care and attention in forwarding these funds were
so satisfactory in meeting the case. Thousands beside the above were
by him securely deposited for others. During the whole period of his
Chaplaincy he rendered invaluable service in the Camp by his untiring
and well directed efforts to do good; and on the field, often where
the battle raged fiercest, he was among the foremost to minister to
the wounded and dying physical relief and the consolations of
religion, and by his own acts of heroism to inspire others with
confidence and to deeds of valor.

He has actively participated in the following actions, viz.:
Blackwater; South Mills; Union Bridge; Deep Creek; heavy skirmish in
the Dismal Swamp; heavy skirmish on the Hickory Ground Road, Dismal
Swamp; Deserted House; siege of Suffolk; Carrsville; Hatchie's Run;
heavy skirmish on Bermuda Front; Farra's Island, near Dutch Gap Canal;
and capture of Richmond.

    BVT. COL. H. S. HALL,
    Commanding Regiment.

JUNE 20TH, 1865.


ASSISTANT SURGEON A. B. LOWE.

ASSISTANT SURGEON A. B. LOWE, a native of Sussex county, New
Jersey, is a regular graduate of the Belview College of Medicine, New
York City. Upon recommendation of Surgeon's Examining Board of New
York, before which he passed examination, he received the appointment
of ASSISTANT SURGEON of this Regt., March 8th, 1864. He
accompanied the First Battalion to the field, and was the Medical
officer in charge of it during the battles of the Wilderness Campaign,
and until after the action before Petersburg, July 30th, 1864. On
detached service, he was in Amputating Hospital of 3d Div., 9th Corps;
Assistant Surgeon in charge of Baptist Church Hospital of Manchester,
Va., after the occupation of Richmond and Manchester by our forces;
and also Medical Officer in the Post Hospital of Brownsville, Texas.
He was again Medical Officer in charge of this Regiment on its
perilous ocean voyage to New York, and until its final discharge. In
all the duties of his department in connection with this command, and
the other positions to which he had been ordered, he manifested
intelligence, ability and skill. As an officer and gentleman he is
deserving of great esteem.

He has been, in the duties of his profession, in the following
engagements, viz.: Wilderness, May 4th, 5th, 6th and 7th, 1864;
Spottsylvania, May 7th to 15th, 1864; Tolopotomy Creek, May 19th and
20th, 1864; North Anna, May 22d and 23d, 1864; Cold Harbor, June 1st
to 3d, 1864; Old Church, June 10th, 1864; Siege of Petersburg, June
18th, 1864; Mine before Petersburg, July 30th, 1864; Weldon Railroad,
Aug. 19th and 20th, 1864; Poplar Grove Church, Sept. 29th and 30th,
1864; Hatchie's Run, Oct. 27th and 28th, 1864; heavy skirmish on the
Bermuda Front, Dec., 1864; Farra's Island, near Dutch Gap Canal, Jan.
25th, 1865; and capture of Richmond, April 3d, 1865.


ASSISTANT SURGEON J. L. CHIPMAN.

ASSISTANT SURGEON J. L. CHIPMAN of this Regiment is a native
of St. Louis, Mo. After relinquishing the practice of his profession
in Nova Scotia, he appeared before the Surgeon's Examining Board of
Boston, by which he was examined, and he received the appointment of
ASSISTANT SURGEON of U.S. Vols., August 24th, 1861. He was
immediately assigned to the 39th Regt. Mass. Infantry, then in the
field. During the greater time of his connection with this command he
was the only Medical Officer in charge of it. On account of
disability, contracted in the line of duty, he was honorably
discharged May 22nd, 1864. After this he served in United States
Hospitals. He was appointed ASSISTANT SURGEON of this
Regiment, June 8th, 1865, and reported to the command, in Camp, on the
banks of the Rio Grande River, near Brownsville, Texas. In character
and ability he is a worthy officer.

He has participated in the following actions, viz.: heavy skirmish at
Funkstown, Md., July 10th, 1863; Rappahannock Station, Nov., 7th,
1863; and Mine Run, Nov. 27th, 1863.


ADJUTANT EZRA S. DEAN.

ADJUTANT EZRA S. DEAN, of this Regt., is a native of Chester,
Vt., and the only son of a patriotic widow. His esteemed grand-father,
Darius Dean was a soldier of the war of the Revolution.

He enlisted as a PRIVATE, Aug., 2nd, 1862, in Co. "H" 10th
Vt. Vols. which Regt., was commanded Major W. W. Henry, now Brigadier
General. He is eminently identified with the history of the "old
10th." on account of his great gallantry. He received the appointment
of FIRST LIEUTENANT of this Regt., March 8th, 1864, and was
assigned to Co. "D." In this position he was associated with his
company in all its duties and engagements from the time it entered the
field until his promotion to the ADJUTANCY, March 1st, 1865.
As an officer of ability, bravery and exemplary deportment he is
highly esteemed.

He has been in the following engagements, viz.: Wilderness, May 4th,
5th, 6th and 7th, 1864; Spottsylvania, May 7th to 15th, 1864;
Tolopotomy Creek, May 19th and 20th, 1864; North Anna, May 22nd and
23d, 1864; Cold Harbor, June 1st to 3rd, 1864; Old Church, June 10th
1864; Siege of Petersburg, June 18th, 1864; Mine before Petersburg
July 30th, 1864; Weldon Railroad, Aug., 19th and 20th, 1864; Poplar
Grove Church, Sept., 29th and 30th, 1864; Hatchie's Run, Oct., 27th
and 28th, 1864; heavy skirmish on Bermuda Front, Dec., 1864; Farra's
Island, near Dutch Gap Canal, Jan., 25th, 1865; and capture of
Richmond, April 3rd, 1865.


QUARTER MASTER J. N. DAGGETT.

QUARTER MASTER J. N. DAGGETT, of this Regiment, is a native
of Coventry, Vt. He volunteered as a PRIVATE in Co. "K," 10th
Vt. Vol. Aug., 6th, 1862. For soldierly conduct, efficiency and
bravery he was promoted to CORPORAL in his company, Jan.,
1st, 1863. He received the appointment of FIRST LIEUTENANT of
this Regiment March 8th, 1864, and was assigned to Co. "C." He was
appointed QUARTER MASTER of the Regiment April 2nd, 1864. In
this position he entered the field with the First Battalion. On
account of his intelligence, ability, faithful discharge of duty, and
his moral rectitude, he enjoys the confidence of all those acquainted
with him.

He has taken part in the following actions, viz.: Locust Grove, Nov.
24th 1863; Wilderness, May 4th, 5th, 6th and 7th, 1864; Spottsylvania,
May 7th to 15th, 1864; Tolopotomy Creek, May 19th and 20th, 1864;
North Anna, May 22d and 23d, 1864; Cold Harbor, June 1st to 3d, 1864;
Old Church, June 10th, 1864; Siege of Petersburg, June 18th, 1864;
Mine before Petersburg, July 30th, 1864; Weldon Railroad, Aug. 19th
and 20th, 1864; Poplar Grove Church, Sept. 29th and 30th, 1864;
Hatchie's Run, Oct. 27th and 28th, 1864; heavy skirmish on the Bermuda
Front, Dec., 1864; Farra's Island, near Dutch Gap Canal, Jan. 25th,
1865; and capture of Richmond, April 3d, 1865.




LINE OFFICERS.


CAPTAIN JESSE WILKINSON.

This officer, commanding Co. "A." of this Regiment, is a native of
Warwickshire, England, who in coming to the United States became a
citizen of Brooklyn, New York, where he was engaged in the silk
manufacturing business.

He volunteered, July 12th, 1862, as a PRIVATE in Co. "F."
18th Regiment Connecticut Infantry. Upon the organization of his
company he was appointed CORPORAL. In the battle of
Winchester, June 14th and 15th, 1863, he received a wound in the hand,
and was also taken prisoner. He was held by the enemy, in Libby Prison
and on Belle Island, until July 13th ensuing. During this
incarceration, although the period was comparatively short, he was
subjected to those inhuman cruelties practiced on our brave men.

He received the appointment of CAPTAIN in this Regiment,
March 8th, 1864, and after reporting at Camp William Penn,
Philadelphia, assisted in the organization of Co. "A." "B." "C." and
"D." and was assigned to the command of Co. "A." With this he again
returned to the active field service in company with the First
Battalion. He was present with it in Grant's stirring campaign of the
Wilderness, and in all its other actions and duties thereafter. He
received a bayonet wound in his left arm while gallantly leading his
company in the charge before Petersburg, July 30th, 1864, and when
Colonel Hall, being severely wounded, was borne from the field, he
took command of the Regiment. This command he retained until relieved
by Major Bumstead, who reported Aug. 3rd, 1864. He has been acting
Field Officer on a number of occasions; Judge Advocate of General
Court Martial at Headquarters of the 2nd Brig., 4th Div. of the 9th
Corps; and member of General Court Martial at Headquarters of the 1st
Brig. 3rd Div. of the same Corps. His company, which has always
preserved an excellent name for good discipline, efficiency and
bravery in action, presents the highest compliment that can be
bestowed upon this worthy commander.

He has taken part in the following engagements, viz.: heavy skirmish
at Winchester, Va., June 13th, 1863; Winchester, June 14th and 15th,
1863; Wilderness, May 4th, 5th, 6th and 7th, 1864; Spottsylvania May
7th to 15th, 1864; Tolopotomy Creek, May 19th and 20th, 1864; North
Anna, May 22nd, and 23d, 1864; Cold Harbor, June 1st to 3rd, 1864; Old
Church, June 10th, 1864; Siege of Petersburg, June 18th, 1864; Mine
before Petersburg, July 30th, 1864; Weldon Railroad, Aug. 19th and
20th, 1864; Poplar Grove Church, Sept. 29th and 30th, 1864; Hatchie's
Run, Oct. 27th and 28th, 1864; heavy skirmish on the Bermuda Front, in
Dec. 1864; Farra's Island at Dutch Gap Canal, Jan. 25th, 1865; and
capture of Richmond, April 3d, 1865.


FIRST LIEUT. JAMES T. HAYMAN.[2]

FIRST LIEUTENANT JAMES T. HAYMAN of Co. "A." was a native of
England. It is known in the history of this war that he was associated
with the 4th N.Y. Heavy Artillery, in which he had first enlisted as
a PRIVATE. He received the appointment of FIRST
LIEUTENANT of this Regt. May 15th, 1864, and was assigned to Co.
"A." In the battle of the Mine before Petersburg, July 30th, 1864, he
was killed by a ball which penetrated his skull.

          [2] For history of 1st Lieut. JAS. O'BRIEN, see
          history of Capt. of Co. C.

In the absence of any particulars of his military history, we are able
to furnish only this imperfect sketch. He is however spoken of as an
officer of ability and bravery, and who has given the full measure of
devotion to his adopted country.


FIRST LIEUT. JAMES SCULLEY.

FIRST LIEUTENANT JAMES SCULLEY of Co. "A," is a native of New
York City, and the only son of a pa triotic widow who departed this
life before the termination of the rebellion, and who, therefore,
could not extend to him on his return the happy welcome. She died
during his absence in the field.

He volunteered Aug., 1861, as a PRIVATE in Co. "K" 10th N.Y.
Infantry, and was promoted to CORPORAL in his Co. May 1862,
for good discipline and efficiency. He was wounded in left hand, by
which he lost one finger of hand, and in left hip at the battle of
Chancellorsville, May 3d, 1863, where he was also particularly
mentioned for his great bravery. He received the appointment of
SECOND LIEUTENANT of this Regt., March 7th, 1864, and was
assigned to Co. "A." He was again severely wounded in the right leg at
the battle of the Mine before Petersburg, July 30th, 1864, and had his
sword broken in his hand by a shot from the enemy as he was gallantly
pressing forward in the charge. For his distinguished service and
bravery in that action he received the promotion to FIRST
LIEUTENANT of the same Co. Aug. 9th, 1864. He has served on
detached service at Camp Casey, Va. and on Military Court Martial at
Harrisburg, Pa. His ability and bravery as an officer are well
attested.

The following are engagements in which he has participated, viz.:
Gaines' Hill, June 27th, 1862; Malvern Hill, June 30th, 1862; Second
Bull Run, Aug. 30th, 1862; Antietam, Sept. 17th, 1862; heavy skirmish
towards Fredericksburg, Oct. 1862; Fredericksburg, Dec. 13th and 14th,
1862; Chancellorsville, May 3d and 4th, 1863; Wilderness, May 4th, 5th,
6th and 7th, 1864; Spottsylvania, May 7th to 15th, 1864; Tolopotomy
Creek, May 19th and 20th, 1864; North Anna, May 22nd and 23d, 1864;
Cold Harbor, June 1st to 3d, 1864; Old Church, June 10th, 1864; Siege
of Petersburg, June 18th, 1864; Mine before Petersburg, July 30th,
1864; Weldon Railroad, Aug. 19th and 20th, 1864; Poplar Grove Church,
Sept. 29th and 30th, 1864; Hatchie's Run, Oct. 27th and 28th, 1864;
heavy skirmish on the Bermuda Front, Dec., 1864; Farra's Island, near
Dutch Gap Canal, Jan. 25th, 1863; and capture of Richmond, April 3d,
1865.


SECOND LIEUT. JAMES ROANTREE.

SECOND LIEUTENANT JAMES ROANTREE, assigned to Co. "A." to
occupy a vacancy occasioned by promotion of Second Lieut. Sculley, was
a native of England, who had become a citizen of Clockville, N.Y. It
is known that he was a CORPORAL associated with the 141st
N.Y. Vols., and that he had participated in a number of engagements in
connection with that command. At the battle of Gettysburg, July 1st,
2d and 3d, 1863, he was severely wounded in the foot.

He received the appointment of Second Lieutenant of this Regt., Sept.
25th, 1864. In the battle of Hatchie's Run, Oct. 27th and 28th, 1864,
he was killed by a shot in the head from the enemy. He was highly
spoken of, as an officer of fine ability and most excellent moral
character, who sealed his devotion to his adopted country with his
life.


SECOND LIEUT. CHARLES H. KIMBALL.

SECOND LIEUTENANT CHARLES H. KIMBALL assigned to Co. "A.", on
account of vacancy by death of Second Lieut. James Roantree, is a
native of Carthage, N.Y., whose grand-father, Richard Kimball, was a
soldier of the war of 1812. He received the appointment of SECOND
LIEUTENANT in this Regt., Nov. 9th, 1864, and was assigned to Co.
A. He was constantly on duty with the command from the date of his
reporting to its final discharge from service, and was greatly
esteemed for his sobriety and exemplary conduct.

He has taken part in the following actions, viz.: heavy skirmish on
Bermuda Front, Dec., 1864; Farra's Island, at Dutch Gap Canal, Jan.
25th, 1865; and capture of Richmond, April 3d, 1865.


CAPTAIN JOHN D. BROWN.

CAPTAIN JOHN D. BROWN, commanding Co. B., is a native of
Uxbridge, Mass. His grand-father was the boy-patriot of the
Revolution, who entered the ranks fighting for Independence when only
fifteen years of age, and who obtained for himself a bright record.
The Captain entered the United States service first, Aug. 8th, 1862,
as a volunteer PRIVATE in Co. D., 18th Conn. Infantry. He
received the appointment of Captain in this Regt., March 8th, 1862,
and was assigned to the command of Co. B. His service with this
command extends throughout Grant's Wilderness campaign of 1864, and in
the subsequent actions, in which the Regt., was engaged to the close
of the war.

At the time of the terrible battle of the Mine before Petersburg, July
30th, 1864, this officer was entirely unfit for duty by reason of
severe illness, but notwithstanding this indisposition he most
patriotically declined remaining in the Hospital, and gallantly led
his Co. in the Charge on that day. He there received a wound in the
breast. His company, which was always specially complimented for its
great bravery in action, was inspired to do noble deeds by the example
of this able and patriotic commander.

He has shared in the following battles; viz.: Winchester, June 14th
and 15th, 1863; Wilderness, May 4th, 5th, 6th and 7th, 1864;
Spottsylvania May 7th to 15th, 1864; Tolopotomy Creek, May 19th and
20th, 1864; North Anna, May 22nd, and 23rd, 1864; Cold Harbor, June
1st to 3rd, 1864; Old Church, June 10th, 1864; Siege of Petersburg,
June 18th, 1864; Mine before Petersburg, July 30th, 1864; Weldon
Railroad, Aug. 19th and 20th, 1864; Poplar Grove Church, Sept. 29th
and 30th, 1864; Hatchie's Run, Oct. 27th and 28th, 1864; heavy
skirmish on the Bermuda Front, in Dec. 1864; Farra's Island at Dutch
Gap Canal, Jan. 25th, 1865; and capture of Richmond, April 3d, 1865.


FIRST LIEUT, L. H. PARKHURST.

FIRST LIEUTENANT L. H. PARKHURST of Co. B., is a native of
Hammonton, N.J. He volunteered Aug. 1862, as a PRIVATE in
Co. I, 24th N.J. Infantry, and received a severe wound in the right
shoulder at the battle of Fredericksburg, Dec. 13th and 14th, 1862.
His history in connection with the 24th N.J., is one of most worthy
distinction. He obtained the appointment of FIRST LIEUTENANT
of this Regt. March 8th, 1864, and was assigned to Co. B. He has also
served a considerable time as Commanding Officer of Co. C. His
intrepidity and gallantry in each and every action in which he has
been engaged, have won for him a deserving meed of praise and thanks.

He has participated in the following actions, viz.: Fredericksburg,
Va., Dec. 13th and 14th 1862; Chancellorsville, May 3d and 4th, 1864;
Wilderness, May 4th, 5th, 6th and 7th, 1864: Spottsylvania, May 7th to
15th, 1864; Tolopotomy Creek, May 19th and 20th, 1864; North Anna, May
22nd and 23rd, 1864; Cold Harbor, June 1st to 3rd, 1864; Old Church,
June 10th, 1864; Siege of Petersburg, June 18th, 1864; Mine before
Petersburg July 30th, 1864; Weldon Railroad, Aug. 19th and 20th, 1864;
Poplar Grove Church, Sept. 29th and 30th, 1864; Hatchie's Run, Oct.
27th and 28th, 1864; heavy skirmish on Bermuda Front, Dec., 1864;
Farra's Island, near Dutch Gap Canal, Jan. 25th, 1865; and capture of
Richmond, April 3rd, 1865.


SECOND LIEUT. J. W. STEELE.

SECOND LIEUTENANT J. W. STEELE, of Co. B., is a citizen of
Kansas. He was appointed SECOND LIEUTENANT in this command,
March 16th, 1864. He received a severe wound in the left shoulder at
the battle of the Mine before Petersburg, July 30th, 1864, and for his
gallant service in that engagement promoted to FIRST
LIEUTENANT, and appointed ADJUTANT of the Regiment Oct.
27th, 1864. He was honorably discharged upon tender and acceptance of
his resignation, Feb., 1865.


SECOND LIEUT. CHARLES WICKWARE.

SECOND LIEUTENANT CHARLES WICKWARE, assigned to Co. B., to
fill the vacancy occasioned by the promotion of Second Lieut. Steele,
is a native of Colchester, Vt., and the son of a widow. His
great-grand father, Joseph Wickware, late of Bennington, Vt., served
with great honor to himself and the country in the struggle of 1776,
for Independence. The Lieut. first volunteered as a PRIVATE,
March 26th, 1862, in Co. I. 6th Vt. Infantry. At the battle of Savage
Station, June 29th, 1862, he was severely wounded by a ball entering
his back, close to the left side, and passing out at the right side,
and was at the same time taken prisoner. As is very reasonable to
expect, his dangerous wound became aggravated greatly by the cruel
treatment of a Libby Prison life. He was fortunately paroled, July
22nd, before death ensued, and immediately forwarded to West
Philadelphia Hospital. In the battle of the Wilderness, May 4th, 5th,
6th and 7th, 1864, he was severely wounded (second day) in the left
arm, on account of which it became necessary to amputate his arm above
the elbow. He was discharged by reason of this wound Feb., 6th, 1865.
He afterwards received the appointment of SECOND LIEUTENANT
in this Regt. In connection with this command, as well as in his
previous service, he has manifested undoubted ability and patriotism.
His empty sleeve, also, is a mark of devotion.

He has shared in the following engagements, viz: Lee's Mill, Va.,
April 16th, 1862; Williamsburg, May, 5th, 1862; Golden's Farm, June
28th, 1862; Savage Station, June 29th, 1862; second Fredericksburg and
Salem Heights, May 3d and 4th, 1863; heavy skirmish at Franklin
Crossing, June 5th and 6th, 1863; Gettysburg, Pa., July 1st, 2d and
3rd, 1863; heavy skirmish at Funkstown, Md., July 10th, 1863; heavy
skirmish at Gainesville, Oct., 1863; Locust Grove, Nov. 24th, 1863;
Wilderness, May 4th, 5th, 6th and 7th, 1864; and capture of Richmond,
April 3d, 1865.


CAPT. JAMES O'BRIEN.

CAPTAIN JAMES O'BRIEN, assigned to command of Co. C., to
occupy the vacancy made by the promotion of Capt. Bates to Maj. of
45th U.S.C.T., is a native of Glenlough, Ireland, and the son of a
widow. Upon coming to this country he became a citizen of Maulius,
N.Y. In the early stage of the war he volunteered as a
PRIVATE in Co. I, 61st N.Y. Infantry. At the battle of Fair
Oaks, June 1st, 1862, he was severely wounded in the arm, but
continued heroically on the field to the close of the action. At the
battle of Charles City Cross Roads, June 30th, 1862, he received a
severe wound penetrating the left shoulder; and having been left on
the field, helpless and weak by loss of blood, he was taken prisoner.
His wound became alarmingly dangerous, by reason of his cruel
imprisonment in Libby Prison. He was paroled, June 31st, and removed
to Satterlee Hospital, Phila. Little hope was entertained about his
recovery. While yet in the Hospital, and after he had slightly
improved, he resumed his studies with a view to a collegiate course he
had before contemplated. The way also appeared open for the fulfillment
of his purpose in this particular, as the necessity of his discharge
was decided upon. He afterwards, however, concluded if possible to
return to the field. Much praise is due this maimed soldier for his
patriotic determination. Before leaving the Hospital he obtained the
promotion to SECOND LIEUTENANT of his Co. This honor, won by
so many acts of distinguished bravery, he was unable to accept at that
time, on account of his severe disability.

He was appointed FIRST LIEUTENANT of this Regt., March 8th,
1864, and assigned to Co. A. He received the appointment of
ADJUTANT of this command, April 1st, 1864, and in this
position he accompanied it to the front in the army of the Potomac. In
the terrible battle of the Mine before Petersburg, July 30th, 1864,
and the charge by this Regt., he received another severe wound in the
left shoulder. For his great gallantry in this action he is
particularly mentioned by both his Regimental and Brigade Commanders,
and for which, also, he was promoted to CAPTAIN by the
President of the United States. He was afterwards detailed as Post
Adjutant and Recruiting Officer for the North Eastern District of Va.,
at Camp Casey. He remained there until by order the Recruiting
Rendezvous was discontinued, when he reported to the Regt., then on
the Front Line before Richmond, and was assigned to the command of Co.
C.

He has served as A.A.A.G. at Headquarters of the 3d Brig. 1st Div.
25th Corps, and also at same Headquarters, as Acting Asst. Inspector
General, up to date of order returning this Regt. for final muster-out
and discharge. This officer remained in the active field service to
the close of the war, although continuing to suffer very much by
reason of his wounds, which were but partially healed and very
painful. He has proved himself as brave as he is efficient.

The following are engagements in which he has participated, viz.:
heavy skirmish at Rappahannock Bridge, March, 1862; Siege of Yorktown,
May, 1862; Williamsburg, May 5th, 1864; Fair Oaks, June 1st, 1862;
Peach Orchard, June 28th, 1862; Savage Station, June 29th, 1862;
Charles City Cross Roads, June 30th, 1862; Wilderness, May 4th, 5th,
6th and 7th, 1864; Spottsylvania, May 7th to 15th, 1864; Tolopotomy
Creek, May 19th and 20th, 1864; North Anna, May 22d and 23d, 1864;
Cold Harbor, June 1st to 3d, 1864; Old Church, June 10th, 1864; Siege
of Petersburg, June 18th, 1864; Mine before Petersburg, July 30th,
1864; capture of Richmond, April 3d, 1865.


FIRST LIEUT, W. E. PALMER.

FIRST LIEUT. W. E. PALMER, who was assigned to Co. C, to
occupy a vacancy made by the promotion of First Lieut. Daggett to
Quarter Master of the Regiment, is a native of Utica, N.Y., and the
only son of a widow. His grand-father, Elias Palmer, held the position
of Sergeant in the war of the Revolution. He volunteered Aug. 2nd,
1862 as a PRIVATE in Co. G, 146th N.Y. Infantry. In
connection with this command he displayed the ability and bravery of a
good soldier. He received the appointment of FIRST LIEUTENANT
of this Regiment, July 21st, 1864. At the battle of Hatchie's Run,
Oct. 27th and 28th, 1864, he was wounded in the right arm. He has
served on detached service as a member of General Court Martial at
Headquarter of 1st Div. 25th Corps. As an officer he is esteemed by
all acquainted with him.

He has taken part in the following actions, viz.: Fredericksburg, Dec.
13th and 14th, 1862; Chancellorsville, May 3d and 4th, 1863;
Gettysburg, July 2nd and 3rd, 1863; heavy skirmish at Williamsport,
July 9th, 1863; skirmish near Ellicott's Mills, July 7th, 1864;
Hatchie's Run, Oct. 27th and 28th, 1864; heavy skirmish on Bermuda
Front, Dec., 1864; Farra's Island, at Dutch Gap Canal, Jan. 25th,
1865; and capture of Richmond, April 3d, 1865.


SECOND LIEUT. W. F. SILVERWOOD.

SECOND LIEUTENANT W. F. SILVERWOOD, of Co. C, was appointed
to this rank March 7th, 1864. This brave officer commanded his Company
in the storming of the Mine before Petersburg, July 30th, 1864, and
was severely wounded in his left arm and side. He was honorably
discharged, Dec. 5th, 1864, by reason of his wounds, received in the
above mentioned action.


SECOND LIEUT. J. WHEATLEY.

SECOND LIEUT. J. WHEATLEY, who was assigned to Co. C, to fill
a vacancy by discharge of Second Lieutenant Silverwood, is a native of
Syracuse, N.Y., and the son of a widow. He enlisted, Aug. 26th, 1861,
as a BUGLER, in Co. I, 3d N.Y. Cav., and received a severe
wound on his left thigh at the Siege of Little Washington, July 16th,
1863. His name is associated with all that is truly distinguished in
his services with this Cavalry. He received the appointment of
SECOND LIEUTENANT of this Regiment, Dec. 31st, 1864. Besides
his duties in this Company, he commanded Co. E, 19th U.S.C.T., and
was in this command, April 3d, 1865, at the capture of Richmond.

He has participated in the following engagements, viz.: Ball's Bluff,
1861; Winchester, May 25th, 1862; Little Washington, N.C., June 1863;
Kingston; White Hall, Tarborough, Robb's Mills, Mine before
Petersburg, July 30th, 1864; skirmish on Wilson's Raid; skirmish
around Richmond, and capture of Richmond, April 3d, 1865.


CAPT. B. B. BLACKMAN.

CAPT. B. B. BLACKMAN, commander of Co. D, is a native of
Norwich, Conn. He volunteered July 26th, 1862, as a PRIVATE
in Co. C, 18th Conn. Infantry. While gallantly assaulting the enemies
position in the action of Winchester, Va., June 14th and 15th, 1863,
he was taken prisoner. In his confinement in Libby Prison and on Belle
Isle, he shared the usual Confederate fare and inhuman treatment
visited upon our brave men by that self-styled chivalry of the South.
He received the appointment of CAPTAIN of this Regiment,
March 8th, 1864, and was assigned to the command of Co. D. In this
capacity he returned to the field with his Company, and was present in
the campaign of 1864 in the Wilderness. He has served as Recorder of
Military Commission at Headquarters 3d Div. 9th Corps in 1864; member
of General Court Martial at Headquarters 1st Div. 25th Corps March,
1865; and member of Military Commission for Western District of Texas,
convened at Brownsville, Texas, and which occupied the place of Civil
Court, Aug. and Sept., 1865. This officer possesses a fine order of
talent, and the encomiums that have been pronounced in favor of his
Company are also true compliments to its worthy commander.

He has been in the following engagements, viz.: Winchester, June 14th
and 15th, 1863; Wilderness, May 4th, 5th, 6th and 7th, 1864;
Spottsylvania, May 7th to 15th, 1864; Tolopotomy Creek, May 19th and
20th, 1864; North Anna, May 22nd, and 23rd, 1864; Cold Harbor, June
1st to 3rd, 1864; Old Church, June 10th, 1864; Siege of Petersburg,
June 18th, 1864; Mine before Petersburg, July 30th, 1864; Weldon
Railroad, Aug. 19th and 20th, 1864; Poplar Grove Church, Sept. 29th
and 30th, 1864; Hatchie's Run, Oct. 27th and 28th, 1864; heavy
skirmish on the Bermuda Front, in Dec. 1864; Farra's Island, at Dutch
Gap Canal, Jan. 25th, 1865; and capture of Richmond, April 3d, 1865.


FIRST. LIEUT, J. C. HANKEY.[3]

FIRST LIEUT. J. C. HANKEY, assigned to Co. D, is a native of
Gettysburg, Pa., and a regular graduate of Pennsylvania College,
situated at that place. His grand-father was a soldier who greatly
distinguished himself in the war of 1812. The Lieutenant volunteered
Aug. 20th, 1862 as a PRIVATE in Co. G, 138th Pa. Infantry. In
Nov., 1862, for good discipline and efficiency he was promoted to
CORPORAL in his Co. He was appointed Acting Hospital Steward
of his Regiment, July 2d, 1863, and continued in the duties of this
office until honorably discharged in order to accept his appointment
of SECOND LIEUTENANT in this Regiment, which dates March 7th,
1864. In the organization of the 138th Pa. Regt. he always manifested,
in an eminent degree, the gallantry and high toned principles of a
soldier. After serving a while with distinction in this Regiment he
became Ambulance Officer of the 2d Brig. 4th Div. 9th Corps, and also
Chief of Ambulance and Acting Assistant Quarter Master of the 1st Div.
25th Corps. During the expedition of this Corps from City Point, Va.,
to Texas, he was the Senior Commanding Officer of the vessel
"Glaucus." He received the appointment of FIRST LIEUTENANT of
this Regiment, May 30th, 1865, and by special written request of the
Commanding Officer he was relieved from his other duties in order to
report to this command. This officer has discharged the duties of his
respective positions with so much executive ability and faithfulness
as to receive great praise from his superiors and the Department.

          [3] For history of FIRST. LIEUT. EZRA S. DEAN, see
          history of Adjutant Dean of this Regiment.

He has been in the following actions, viz.: Skirmish at Williamsport,
July 9th, 1863; skirmish at Wappings Heights, July, 1863; skirmish at
Brandy Station, Nov. 8th, 1863; Locust Grove, Nov. 24th, 1863; Mine
Run, Nov. 27th, 1863; Wilderness, May 4th, 5th, 6th and 7th, 1864;
Spottsylvania, May 7th to 15th, 1864; Tolopotomy Creek, May, 19th and
20th, 1864; North Anna, May 22nd and 23rd, 1864; Cold Harbor, June 1st
to 3rd, 1864; Old Church, June 10th 1864; Siege of Petersburg, June
18th, 1864; Mine before Petersburg, July 30th, 1864; Weldon Railroad,
Aug. 19th and 20th, 1864; Poplar Grove Church, Sept. 29th and 30th,
1864; Hatchie's Run, Oct. 27th and 28th, 1864; heavy skirmish on
Bermuda Front, Dec., 1864; Farra's Island, near Dutch Gap Canal, Jan.
25th, 1865; and capture of Richmond, April 3rd, 1865.


CAPT. JOSEPH FORBES.

CAPT. JOSEPH FORBES, commanding Co. E, is a native of the
City of New York. His grand-father actively participated in the war of
1812, and his brother Thomas H. Forbes was a soldier in the 1st N.Y.
Vols. in this war. The Captain was, during a period of four years
previous to the rebellion, a member of the Engineer Corps of the 71st
N.Y. National Guards. This entire Regiment very promptly volunteered
its services to the Government, the day after the fire upon Fort
Sumter, and was immediately accepted. It was the sixth to arrive in
Washington for the defence of the Capitol. This loyal troop on its
march to that point, passed through disaffected Maryland, uncheered
and unprovided. Disloyalists charged them Twelve Hundred Dollars for
Two Carts, with which to transport necessary baggage, and these even
then failed to answer the purpose. This command with which the Captain
was connected, patriotically volunteered to remain in service for the
battle of Bull Run, although its term had expired. It opened the fight
of that day, and made the brilliant and successful charge upon an
entire Brigade of the enemy, composed of Alabama Regiments. In the
latter campaign, in which this Regiment volunteered its services
again, Capt. Forbes returned as Captain commanding Co. B. He received
the appointment of CAPTAIN in this Regiment (43d U.S.C.T.)
March 30th, 1864. He was wounded in the hand at the battle of
Hatchie's Run, Oct. 27th and 28th, 1864. This officer, who has seen
much service and greatly distinguished himself in connection with the
early organization of the 71st N.Y., and also with this Regiment,
deserves special compliments for his ability and bravery, and the
excellent military standard, to which he brought his command. His
Company was one among the first in neatness, discipline and
efficiency. A circular dated Headquarters 3d Brig. 1st Div. 25th
Corps, Feb. 5th, 1865, issued by order of the Brigade Commander, Brig.
Gen. H. G. Thomas, who reports the result of an Inspection of Quarters
of the different Regiments of his Brigade, states: "Capt. Forbes and
his Company deserve particular notice. Their quarters are far superior
in construction, neatness and ornament, to those of any of the
Companies in this Brigade." As a token of the high appreciation of
this officer, by his Company, they were pleased to present him with
the 25th Corps Badge and pin, pure gold and finely executed, with name
and rank of their commander engraved on the Badge and on the Pin, a
list of the engagements in which he led them, the whole beautifully
prefaced by the following inscription: "Presented to Capt. Forbes Co.
E, 43d U.S.C.T., by his Company for his bravery and impartiality in
command." This officer, also, stands recommended for Captaincy in the
Regular Service, having been so recommended by the Examining Board for
officers of the Regular army, appointed in the field by order of the
War Department.

He has taken part in the following actions, viz.: skirmish with Shore
Battery at Acquia Creek, June 1861; Bull Run, June 21st, 1861;
Wilderness, May 4th, 5th, 6th and 7th, 1864; Spottsylvania, May 7th to
15th, 1864; Tolopotomy Creek, May 19th and 20th, 1864; North Anna, May
22nd and 23rd, 1864; Cold Harbor, June 1st to 3rd, 1864; Old Church,
June 10th, 1864; Siege of Petersburg, June 18th, 1864; Weldon
Railroad, Aug. 19th and 20th, 1864; Poplar Grove Church, Sept. 29th
and 30th, 1864; Hatchie's Run, Oct. 27th and 28th, 1864; skirmish on
Bermuda Front, Dec, 1864; Farra's Island, at Dutch Gap Canal, Jan.
25th, 1865; and capture of Richmond, April 3rd, 1865.


FIRST LIEUT. GEORGE W. WILLIAMS.

FIRST LIEUTENANT GEORGE W. WILLIAMS of Co. E. This officer
was captured by the enemy, in the charge by our forces at the battle
of the Mine before Petersburg, July 30th, 1864. He finally escaped
from prison, in company with a few others. His companions were all
re-taken, except one who unfortunately drowned. He, alone, succeeded,
after a long time eluding search, and suffering great hardships in the
enemy's country in his return to our lines. He continued in the
service to the close of the rebellion, and was honorably discharged
upon acceptance of resignation by order of the War Department, June
17th, 1865. He was a brave and efficient officer.


FIRST LIEUT. DANIEL J. HOGAN.

FIRST LIEUTENANT DANIEL J. HOGAN, Co. E, is a native of New
York City, and the only son of a widow. He volunteered, May 18th,
1863, as a PRIVATE in the 5th Independent New Jersey Battery,
and served with distinction in this organization until his appointment
to SECOND LIEUTENANT of this Regiment, which dates April
13th, 1864. After reporting for duty he served in Co. A, C, and H. He
was promoted to FIRST LIEUTENANT, Aug. 18th, 1865, and
assigned to Co. E, to fill the vacancy occasioned by the resignation
of First Lieut. Williams. This promotion was well merited, as his
ability, services and moral character are alike honorable to himself
and to the country.

He has shared in the following engagements, viz.: Gettysburg, July
1st, 2d and 3d, 1863; Wilderness, May 4th, 5th, 6th and 7th, 1864;
Spottsylvania, May 7th to 15th, 1864; Tolopotomy Creek, May, 19th and
20th, 1864; North Anna, May 22nd and 23rd, 1864; Cold Harbor, June 1st
to 3rd, 1864; Old Church, June 10th 1864; Siege of Petersburg, June
18th, 1864; Mine before Petersburg July 30th, 1864; Weldon Railroad,
Aug. 19th and 20th, 1864; Poplar Grove Church, Sept. 29th and 30th,
1864; Hatchie's Run, Oct. 27th and 28th, 1864; heavy skirmish on
Bermuda Front, Dec., 1864; Farra's Island, near Dutch Gap Canal, Jan.
25th, 1865; and capture of Richmond, April 3rd, 1865.


SECOND LIEUT. SHERMAN P. HAND.

SECOND LIEUTENANT SHERMAN P. HAND of Co. E. This officer was
taken prisoner by the enemy at the battle of the Mine before
Petersburg, July 30th, 1864. He was honorably discharged from the
service of the United States, upon acceptance of resignation by order
of the War Department, May 4th, 1865.


CAPT. HORACE F. BURR.

CAPTAIN HORACE F. BURR, commander of Co. F, is a native of
Charlestown, Mass. Previous to entering the United States Army, he was
a seaman, and had passed two years at sea in the ship "Panther,"
commanded by Capt. Garnett. He volunteered Sept. 9th, 1862, as a
PRIVATE in Co. E, 47th Mass. Infantry. His Regiment occupied
the defences of New Orleans after the capture of the city. He received
the appointment of CAPTAIN of this Regiment, April 13th,
1864, and was assigned to the command of Co. F. He was present with
his Company in all its duties and engagements of an active field
service from the commencement of Grant's Wilderness Campaign to the
close of the war and the final discharge of this Regiment. He also
served as a member of General Court Martial, at Headquarters 1st Brig.
4th Div. 9th Corps. This officer, whose Company won true distinction
on account of good discipline, excellent deportment and bravery in
action, is greatly esteemed.

He has taken part in the following actions, viz.: Wilderness, May 5th,
6th and 7th, 1864; Spottsylvania, May 7th to 15th, 1864; Tolopotomy
Creek, May 19th and 20th, 1864; North Anna, May 22nd, and 23rd, 1864;
Cold Harbor, June 1st to 3rd, 1864; Old Church, June 10th, 1864; Siege
of Petersburg, June 18th, 1864; Mine before Petersburg, July 30th,
1864; Weldon Railroad, Aug. 19th and 20th, 1864; Poplar Grove Church,
Sept. 29th and 30th, 1864; Hatchie's Run, Oct. 27th and 28th, 1864;
heavy skirmish on the Bermuda Front, in Dec. 1864; Farra's Island, at
Dutch Gap Canal, Jan. 25th, 1865; and capture of Richmond, April 3d,
1865.


FIRST LIEUT. A. A. SHEDD.

FIRST LIEUTENANT A. A. SHEDD, of Co. F, is a native of Lowel,
Mass. His ancestors participated actively in the wars of the
Revolution and of 1812; and his brother, who was associated with him
in the same command during this struggle, continued in the service, as
a Veteran, to its close. The Lieutenant volunteered Aug. 7th, 1862, in
Co. B, 39th Mass. Infantry, and was promoted to CORPORAL of
his Company on the Color Guard, July, 1863. He received the
appointment of FIRST LIEUTENANT of this Regiment, April 2d,
1864, and was assigned to Co. F, with which he returned to the field.
He is highly spoken of for his great gallantry at the battle of
Hatchie's Run, Oct. 27th and 28th, 1864, in which he was engaged as
Aid, on the staff of Brig. Gen. H. G. Thomas. In this action his horse
was shot from under him. This officer has served as Acting Assistant
Inspector General of 1st Brig. and 2nd Brig. 4th Div. 9th Corps; as
A.A.D.C. on the General's staff 3d Brig. 1st Div. 25th Corps, and
Acting Ordinance Officer 1st Div. 25th Corps. He discharged the duty
of these positions with entire satisfaction, and is much esteemed for
his executive ability and true gentlemanly character.

He has been in the following actions, viz.: Skirmish on the Rapidan,
Oct., 1863; Mine Run, Nov. 27th, 1863; Wilderness, May 4th to 7th,
1864; Spottsylvania, May 7th to 15th, 1864; Tolopotomy Creek, May 19th
and 20th, 1864; North Anna, May 22nd and 23rd, 1864; Cold Harbor, June
1st to 3rd, 1864; Old Church, June 10th, 1864; Siege of Petersburg,
June 18th, 1864; Mine before Petersburg, July 30th, 1864; Weldon
Railroad, Aug. 19th and 20th, 1864; Poplar Grove Church, Sept. 29th
and 30th, 1864; Hatchie's Run, Oct. 27th and 28th, 1864; heavy
skirmish on Bermuda Front, Dec., 1864; Farra's Island, at Dutch Gap
Canal, Jan. 25th, and capture of Richmond, April 3d, 1865.


CAPT. A. D. WRIGHT.[4]

CAPT. A. D. WRIGHT, commander of Co. G, is a native of
Elkland, Tioga county, Pa., and whose grand-father was a soldier of
the war of 1812. He enlisted, Aug. 8th, 1862, as a PRIVATE in
Co. A, 149th Pa. Vols. For bravery he was promoted to SERGEANT
in his Co. He is particularly mentioned, in connection with this
organization, for his bravery and distinguished services. He was
appointed CAPTAIN in this Regt., April 13th, 1864, and
assigned to the command of Co. G. At the battle of the Mine before
Petersburg, July 30th, 1864, he received a severe wound in his right
arm above the elbow. He was greatly complimented for his gallantry in
this action, in which he captured, with his own hands, a Rebel Flag,
and brought it successfully from the field. The Brigade Commander
is pleased to refer to this capture in his report of the Regiment.
Although greatly debilitated by reason of his wound, and his arm yet
in a sling, he bravely led his Company in the battle of Hatchie's Run,
Oct. 27th and 28th ensuing. He served in command of the Provost Guards
of Manchester, Va., after the capture of Richmond and the occupation
of Manchester by the Union forces. This officer, whose command has
always preserved a good name for discipline and gallantry, is known
for his fine ability, bravery and moral rectitude.

          [4] For history of Second Lieut. Martin L. Wasson, see
          history of First Lieut. Wasson of Co. G.

He has been in the following engagements, viz.: skirmish at Pollock's
Mills, April, 1863; Chancellorsville, May 3rd and 4th, 1863;
Gettysburg, July 2nd and 3rd, 1863; heavy skirmish at Funkstown, Md.,
July 10th, 1863; Old Church, June 10th, 1864; Siege of Petersburg,
June 18th, 1864; Mine before Petersburg, July 30th, 1864; Weldon
Railroad, Aug. 19th and 20th, 1864; Poplar Grove Church, Sept. 29th
and 30th, 1864; Hatchie's Run, Oct. 27th and 28th, 1864; skirmish on
Bermuda Front, Dec., 1864; Farra's Island, at Dutch Gap Canal, Jan.
25th, 1865; and capture of Richmond, April 3rd, 1865.


FIRST LIEUT. M. W. SAWYER.

FIRST LIEUT. M. W. SAWYER, of Co. G, is a native of the State
of Vermont. This officer was honorably discharged, March 10th, 1865,
by order of the War Department, on account of wounds received in the
battle of Hatchie's Run, Oct. 27th and 28th, 1864.


FIRST LIEUT. MARTIN WASSON.

FIRST LIEUT. MARTIN L. WASSON, who was assigned to Co. G, to
fill a vacancy made by discharge of First Lieutenant Sawyer, is a
native of Alabama, N.Y. He volunteered as a PRIVATE, in Co.
H, 8th N.Y. heavy Artillery, Aug. 8th, 1862. He continued in this
organization until his appointment of SECOND LIEUTENANT in
this Regiment, (43d U.S.C.T.) March 7th, 1864, when he was assigned to
Co. F. He was promoted to FIRST LIEUTENANT, May 30th, 1865,
for gallant services, and assigned to Co. G. He has shared in all the
duties of this command from its first entrance to the field, and
proved himself able and brave.

The following are engagements in which he has participated, viz.:
Harpers Ferry; Wilderness, May 4th to 7th, 1864; Spottsylvania, May
7th to 15th, 1864; Tolopotomy Creek, May 19th and 20th, 1864; North
Anna, May 22nd and 23rd, 1864; Cold Harbor, June 1st to 3d, 1864; Old
Church, June 10th, 1864; Siege of Petersburg, June, 1864; Mine before
Petersburg, July 30th, 1864; Weldon Railroad, Aug. 19th and 20th,
1864; Poplar Grove Church, Sept. 29th and 30th, 1864; Hatchie's Run,
Oct 27th and 28th, 1864; skirmish on Bermuda Front, Dec, 1864; Farra's
Island at Dutch Gap Canal, Jan. 25th, 1865; and capture of Richmond,
April 3d, 1865.


SECOND LIEUT. ROBERT W. ARMSTRONG.

SECOND LIEUT. ROBERT W. ARMSTRONG, of Co. G, was a native of
New York city. He volunteered as a PRIVATE, April, 1861, in
Hawkin's Zouaves, with whom he was engaged in a number of important
battles. He afterwards re-enlisted in the 16th N.Y. Cavalry, in which
he received the promotion of FIRST SERGEANT of his Co. He was
appointed SECOND LIEUTENANT in this Regiment, April 13th,
1864, and was wounded in the hand at the battle of the Mine before
Petersburg, July 30th, 1864. He was complimented for his great
gallantry displayed on that day, having re-captured from the enemy a
National color, belonging to another command. He was killed, Aug.
13th, 1864, by a ball shot through his heart, while commanding a
Fatigue party in the Trenches before Petersburg.

When the intelligence of this officer's death was communicated to his
home, the Sabbath-school of his Church, in which he had been long a
principal teacher, honored his memory with a series of very
appropriate resolutions. He was greatly esteemed in this command as an
intelligent and brave officer, whose very positive moral character was
high-toned and unswerving.


SECOND LIEUT. S. P. BUTLER.

SECOND LIEUT. S. P. BUTLER, assigned to Co. G, to occupy
vacancy made by death of Second Lieut. Armstrong, is a native of
Pharsalia, N.Y. Several of his ancestors held commissioned offices in
the Army of the Revolutionary War, in which they also distinguished
themselves by a number of brave acts. The Lieutenant entered the
service as FIRST LIEUTENANT of Co. C, 34th N.Y. Vols., May
1st, 1861. He was promoted to CAPTAIN of Co. H, of the same
command, Oct. 18th, 1861. On account of physical disability contracted
in the service, he was afterwards honorably discharged; but when
earnest calls were made to replenish the thinned ranks of the army he
immediately responded by patriotically volunteering as a
PRIVATE in Co. B, 114th, N.Y. He continued in this
organization until his appointment of SECOND LIEUTENANT of
this Regiment, Oct. 22nd, 1864. He also served as commanding officer
of a company of Sharp-shooters, 1st Div., 25th Corps. As an officer he
enjoyed the confidence and esteem of all acquainted with him.

He has actively participated in the following engagements, viz.: Siege
of Yorktown, May, 1862; Fair Oaks, June 1st, 1862; Peach Orchard, June
28th, 1862; Savage Station, June 29th 1862; White Oak Swamp and Nelson
Farm, June 30th, 1862; Malvern Hill, July 1st, 1862; Marksville
Plains, La., May, 1864; Winchester, Sept. 18th, 1864; Fisher's Hill,
1864; Cedar Creek, Oct. 19th, 1864; Skirmish on Bermuda Front, Dec.,
1864; Farra's Island, at Dutch Gap Canal, Jan. 25th, 1865; and capture
of Richmond, April 3rd, 1865.


CAPT. R. G. DILL.

CAPT. R. G. DILL, commander of Co. H, is a native of
Newcastle, Pa. He volunteered April 15th, 1861, as a PRIVATE
in Co. B, 12th Pa., Infantry, and remained in connection with this
command until its expiration of term of service, when he re-enlisted
in Co. E, 102nd Pa. For his gallantry displayed in action he was
afterwards promoted to CORPORAL in his Company. In
consequence of a disability contracted in the service he was honorably
discharged; but upon recovery he immediately returned to the field;
this time in Co. F, 103rd Pa. He was wounded in the left hand at the
battle of Malvern Hill, July 1st, 1862, and again severely wounded, in
left leg below the knee, in the Skirmish at Blount's Mills, April 7th,
1863. He received the appointment of CAPTAIN in this
Regiment, April 2nd, 1864, and continued in command of his Company in
all its duties and actions to the final muster out. This officer,
whose ability, experience and bravery, commend him to all, is a most
worthy commander.

He has taken part in the following actions, viz.: Williamsburg,
May 5th, 1862; Seven Pines, May 31st, 1862; Skirmish at Seven Pines,
June 27th and 28th, 1862; Malvern Hill, July 1st, 1862; Chantilly,
Sept. 1st, 1862; Skirmish at Williamsport, Sept. 19th, 1862; Skirmish
at Blount's Mills, N.C., April 7th, 1863; Weldon Railroad, Aug. 19th
and 20th, 1864; Poplar Grove Church, Sept. 29th and 30th, 1864;
Hatchie's Run, Oct. 27th and 28th, 1864; skirmish on Bermuda Front,
Dec., 1864; Farra's Island, at Dutch Gap Canal, Jan. 25th, 1865; and
capture of Richmond, April 3rd, 1865.


FIRST LIEUT. JOHN P. HAWXHURST.

FIRST LIEUT. JOHN P. HAWXHURST, of Co. H, is a native of
Otsego, Wis., and the son of a widow. He volunteered Aug. 15th, 1862,
in Co. G, 1st U.S. Sharp-shooters. At the battle of Gettysburg, July
1st, 2nd and 3rd, 1863, he was severely wounded in his left hand. On
account of this wound he was transferred to the Veteran Reserve Corps.
He is particularly mentioned for his distinguished bravery in his
services with the 1st U.S. Sharp-shooters. He was appointed FIRST
LIEUTENANT in this Regiment, April 13th, 1864, and assigned to
Co. H. He has served as commanding officer of Co. C, 23rd U.S.C.T.,
and as Pioneer officer, Headquarters 3rd Brig. 1st Div. 25th Corps.
His services and gallantry in his connection with this command have
won for him the uniform testimony of a good officer.

He has participated in the following engagements, viz:
Chancellorsville, May 3rd and 4th, 1863; Gettysburg, July 1st, 2nd and
3rd, 1863; Weldon Railroad, Aug. 19th and 20th, 1864; Poplar Grove
Church, Sept. 29th and 30th, 1864; Hatchie's Run, Oct. 27th and 28th,
1864; skirmish on Bermuda Front, Dec., 1864; Farra's Island, at Dutch
Gap Canal, Jan. 25th, 1865; and capture of Richmond, April 3rd,
1865.[5]

          [5] For history of Second Lieut. Daniel J. Hogan of Co. H,
          see history, of First Lieut. Hogan, Co. E.


CAPT. J. B. REYNOLDS.

CAPT. J. B. REYNOLDS, commander of Co. I, is a native of
Tivoli, Blue Earth county, Minn., and whose grand-father, George
Reynolds, served in the eventful struggle of the Revolution until the
Independence of the Colonies was triumphantly secured. The Captain
volunteered first, April 22nd, 1861, as a PRIVATE in Co. E,
3rd Wis. Infantry, which Regiment was commanded by Col., now Maj.
Gen., Scuyler Hamilton. At the battle of Chancellorsville, May 3rd and
4th, 1863, he was severely wounded in his left arm, by reason of which
wound he was afterwards transferred to the Veteran Reserve Corps. He
was afterwards appointed CAPTAIN in this Regiment, April
13th, 1864, and assigned to the command of Co. I. In this position he
has participated with it in its actions and duties up to final
discharge of Regiment.

The unexceptionably good moral conduct of the men of this Company, and
their discipline and bravery, very favorably represent the character,
ability and worthiness of their commander, who has taken part in the
following actions, viz: Chancellorsville, May 3rd and 4th, 1863;
Weldon Railroad, Aug. 19th and 20th, 1864; Poplar Grove Church, Sept.
29th and 30th, 1864; Hatchie's Run, Oct. 27th and 28th, 1864; skirmish
on Bermuda Front, Dec., 1864; Farra's Island, at Dutch Gap Canal, Jan.
25th, 1865; and capture of Richmond, April 3rd, 1865.


FIRST LIEUT. S. B. KITCHEL.

FIRST LIEUT. S. B. KITCHEL, of Co. I, is a native of Auburn,
N.Y. His worthy grand-father was a soldier of the Revolutionary war.
The Lieutenant first volunteered, Aug. 21st, 1862, as a
PRIVATE in the 8th Independent Co. N.Y. State
Sharp-shooters, and is particularly complimented for his acts of great
gallantry in connection with this organization. He was appointed
FIRST LIEUTENANT in this Regiment, April 10th, 1864. He has
served as A.A.D.C., on Staff Brig. Gen. Commanding 3rd Brig. 4th
Div. 9th Corps, and also 3d Brig. 1st Div. 25th Corps. As an officer
he has always displayed the true characteristics of one worthy of his
position.

He has been in the following engagements, viz: Siege of Suffolk, June,
1863; Blackwater, June, 1863; Mine Run, Nov. 27th, 1863; Rappahannock
Station, Nov. 7th, 1863; skirmish at Haymarket, Dec. 2nd, 1863; Weldon
Railroad, Aug. 19th and 20th, 1864; Poplar Grove Church, Sept. 29th
and 30th, 1864; Hatchie's Run, Oct. 27th and 28th, 1864; skirmish on
the Bermuda Front, Dec., 1864; Farra's Island, Jan. 25th, 1865; and
capture of Richmond, April 3rd, 1865.


SECOND LIEUT. JAMES B. MOORE.

SECOND LIEUT. JAMES B. MOORE, of Co. I. By order of the War
Department, this officer was cashiered and dismissed the service of
the United States, for drunkenness, in accordance with sentence of
General Court Martial, Headquarters 3rd Div. 9th Corps. Approved Nov.
4th, 1864.


SECOND LIEUT. A. SINCLAIR.

SECOND LIEUT. A. SINCLAIR, of Co. I, is a native of Erie, Pa.
He volunteered as a PRIVATE in Co. C, 16th Pa. Cavalry, Jan.
4th, 1864. He was immediately detailed by Gen. Copeland as Chief Clerk
at the Draft Rendezvous of Pittsburg, Pa., and retained in this office
until Dec. 21st ensuing, when under orders from the War Department,
requiring all effective men of volunteers to be sent to their
regiments in the field, he joined his command. He was appointed
SECOND LIEUTENANT in this Regiment and assigned to Co. I,
April 9th, 1865, in place of Second Lieut. Moore, cashiered and
dismissed. This officer has manifested fine executive ability.


CAPT. H. V. MARTIN.

CAPT. H. V. MARTIN, commander of Co. K, is a native of New
York City. Both his grand-fathers were heroes of the Revolution of
1776, and others of his ancestry served in the War of 1812. He
volunteered April 23rd, 1861, immediately after the attack on Sumpter,
in Co. A, 10th N.Y. Vols., which Regiment was one among the first
two-year organizations from N.Y. State to enter the field. Its career
proved it to be a splendid command. It was particularly selected by
Generals Butler and Wool to do garrison duty in Fort Monroe. In its
connection with the Army of the Potomac, it was associated with Syke's
Division of the 5th Corps, and afterwards with the 2nd Corps, and was
chosen Headquarter Guards to Gen. Sumner, when in command of the Right
Grand Division of the Army. On its retiring from service, at the
expiration of term, Gen. French takes the opportunity of reciting its
achievements and distinguished bravery in a published Circular. Capt.
Martin had enlisted as a PRIVATE in this Regiment, was
promoted to SERGEANT in his Company, July, 1861, and
afterwards to ORDERLY SERGEANT. He became acting SERGEANT
MAJOR of the Regiment, July, 1862, and was promoted to SECOND
LIEUTENANT of Co. H, Oct. 25th, 1862. He received also the
promotion to FIRST LIEUTENANT and ADJUTANT of his
Regiment, Feb., 1863. These promotions were awarded him on account of
his fine ability and distinguished services. At the battle of
Fredericksburg, Dec. 13th and 14th, 1862, he received a wound on the
cheek.

He was appointed CAPTAIN in this Regiment, April 8th, 1864,
and assigned to the command of Co. K. In his connection with this
Regiment he has won the name of a fine officer and most worthy
commander, whose moral character is unimpeachable, and whose Company
has been complimented for its high standard of discipline, efficiency
and bravery.

He has served as Judge Advocate General Court Martial at Headquarters
4th Div. 9th Corps; and Judge Advocate General Court Martial 1st Div.
25th Corps; and also Provost Marshal of the Post of Brownsville, in
the Western District of the Department of Texas. This latter office he
held up to date of order mustering out this command. This officer is
also recommended for Captaincy in the regular service by the Examining
Board for officers of the regular army, appointed in the field by
order of the War Department.

He has shared in the following battles, viz: Big Bethel, June 10th,
1861; Skirmish at Shelltown, July, 1861; skirmish at Cherry Stone
Creek, July, 1861; capture of Norfolk, May 10th, 1862; Gaines' Mills,
June 27th, 1862; Chickahominy, June 28th, 1862; Malvern Hill, July
1st, 1862; second Bull Run, Aug. 30th, 1862; Antietam, Sept. 17th,
1862; skirmish at Shepherdstown Ford, Sept. 20th, 1862;
Fredericksburg, Dec. 13th, 1862; Weldon Railroad, Aug. 19th and 20th,
1864; Poplar Grove Church, Sept. 29th and 30th, 1864; Hatchie's Run,
Oct. 27th and 28th, 1864; skirmish on Bermuda Front, Dec., 1864;
Farra's Island, at Dutch Gap Canal, Jan. 25th, 1865; and capture of
Richmond, April 3rd, 1865.


FIRST LIEUT. S. P. STACEY.

FIRST LIEUT. S. P. STACEY, of Co. K, is a native of
Springfield, Bradford county, Pa., and the only son of a widow. Both
his grand-fathers were actively engaged in the Revolutionary War, and
his father, Joseph Stacey, served as a soldier in the war of 1812. The
Lieutenant was a member of an Independent Company of Cavalry of
Springfield, previous to the rebellion. He volunteered, April 22nd,
1861, as a PRIVATE, in Co. H, 6th Pa. Reserves, and was
promoted to CORPORAL in his Company. His name is intimately
associated with the history of the brave Pennsylvania Reserves for
deeds of great gallantry. He was appointed SECOND LIEUTENANT
of Co. C, 171st Pa. Infantry, Dec., 1862, and remained with this
command until its final discharge by reason of expiration of term of
service. In response to the earnest call for men to recruit the
thinned ranks of our army, and with a noble exhibition of patriotism,
he entered the field as a volunteer PRIVATE, in Co. I, 148th
Pa. Vols. At the battle of second Bull Run, Aug. 30th, 1862, he was
wounded by a Buck-shot in the left leg, which continues in the limb.
At the battle of Antietam he suffered a severe wound by a ball
entering below the left eye. He was appointed FIRST
LIEUTENANT of this Regiment, April 14th, 1864. In his connection
with this command he has shown himself to be an officer of military
experience, ability and undoubted bravery.

He has participated in the following engagements, viz.: Drainesville,
Dec. 20th, 1861; skirmish at Catlett's Station, March, 1862; skirmish
at Ton Stall Station, April, 1862; Malvern Hill, July 1st, 1862;
skirmish at Rappahannock Station, Aug., 1862; Thoroughfare Gap, Aug.,
1862; Second Bull Run, Aug. 30th, 1862; South Mountain, Sept. 14th,
1862; Antietam, Sept. 17th, 1863; White Oak River, Feb, 1863; Blount's
Creek, April 7th, 1863; Mine Run, Nov. 27th, 1863; Weldon Railroad,
Aug. 19th and 20th, 1864; Poplar Grove Church, Sept. 29th and 30th,
1864; Hatchie's Run, Oct. 27th and 28th, 1864; skirmish on the Bermuda
Front, Dec., 1864; Farra's Island, Jan. 25th, 1865; and capture of
Richmond, April 3rd, 1865.


SECOND LIEUT. R. C. PHILLIPS.

SECOND LIEUT. R. C. Phillips, of Co. K, is a native of
Naples, N.Y., and whose grand-father, Daniel Phillips, won great
distinction as a soldier in the war of 1812. The Lieutenant enlisted,
Aug. 2nd, 1862, as a PRIVATE in Co. C, 44th N.Y. Vols.,
which command was associated with the 5th Corps. At the battle of
Gettysburg, July 1st, 2nd and 3rd, 1863, he was severely wounded in
the left shoulder and breast. He was appointed SECOND
LIEUTENANT of this Regiment June 8th, 1864, but in consequence of
severe illness he was unable to report before Sept. 1st, ensuing. He
has been Pioneer Officer 1st Brig. 4th Div. 9th Corps, and Assistant
Provost Marshal 1st Div. 25th Corps. His intelligence and services
entitle him to confidence and esteem.

He has taken part in the following actions, viz.: Antietam, Sept.
17th, 1862; Chancellorsville, May 3rd and 4th, 1863; skirmish at
Middletown, Va., June 21st, 1863; Gettysburg, July 1st, 2nd and 3rd,
1863; Poplar Grove Church, Sept. 29th and 30th, 1864; Hatchie's Run,
Oct. 27th and 28th, 1864; skirmish on Bermuda Front, Dec., 1864;
Farra's Island, at Dutch Gap Canal, Jan. 25th, 1865; and capture of
Richmond, April 3rd, 1865.


SUTLER.

THOMAS MCCABE, of Elmira, N.Y., was appointed Sutler of this
Regiment, April 18th, 1864, and remained in this position up to date
of its final discharge. As a gentleman of strictly honest dealings,
sobriety and intelligence, his relation with this command was
throughout satisfactory. He possessed the confidence and esteem of the
officers and men.


SERGT. MAJ. R. B. FORTEN.

SERGT. MAJ. R. B. FORTEN, of Philadelphia, was appointed
SERGEANT MAJOR of this Regiment, April 8th, 1864, from a
private of Co. A. He died June, 1864. This colored soldier, who was
formerly a resident of London, in Europe, possessed a liberal
education, was intelligent and cultivated in no ordinary degree, but
even to a most favorable comparison with our own race. He discharged
the duties of his position with ability and entire satisfaction.
WESLEY JACKSON, (colored) Sergeant of Co. C, was appointed
SERGEANT MAJOR, July 1st, 1865, for distinguished bravery in
action, and in place of George S. Massey reduced to the ranks.
JOHN C. BROCK, of Carlisle, Pa., was appointed QUARTER
MASTER SERGEANT, of the Regiment from Commissary Sergeant.
JOSEPH S. HILL, Sergeant of Co. C, was appointed
COMMISSARY SERGEANT of the Regiment, in place of John C.
Brock promoted. The officers in command, as well as others of the
Field, Staff and Line, take great pleasure in giving their uniform
testimony in favor of the good degree of intelligence, true bravery
and faithfulness of the afore-mentioned colored non-commissioned
officers.

EDWARD S. PERKINS, (white) of Athens, Pa., and Hospital
Steward, U.S. A., was assigned to this Regiment, March 11th, 1864. At
the battle of Hatchie's Run, Oct. 27th and 28th, 1864, he was taken
prisoner by the enemy, and confined in Libby Prison until Feb. 5th,
1865, when he was paroled. Upon discharge of this Regiment he was
assigned to the 62nd U.S.C.T.




THE REGIMENT.


We take pleasure in mentioning the patriotism, energy and great
activity of the Supervisory Committee who had in charge the recruiting
and organizing of colored troops at Philadelphia, during the war.
Their success in the undertaking, resulted not only complimentary to
themselves, but it was also most opportune to the Government, by
adding to our armies an important element to aid in obtaining the
complete victory; and according to another view of the case, by
introducing the stone that had been so long rejected, or preserved
only as a stumbling stone, but which the builders would then take up
in establishing and cementing a stronger and better Union.

The First Battalion of the 43rd Regt. U.S.C.T., composed of
Companies A, B, C, D, E and F, was recruited and organized, March,
1864, at Camp William Penn, Philadelphia, and left Camp, April 18th,
under command of Lieut. Col., now Brevet Col., H. Seymour Hall. It
proceeded by railroad and steamer to Annapolis, Md., and there joined
the 9th Corps, under command of General Burnside. It was associated
with the 1st Brig. of the 4th Div. of this Corps, commanded by General
Ferrero. The Corps took up its march April 23d, to join the Army of
the Potomac. On their way through Washington they were reviewed by
President Lincoln, in the presence of many other public officers, and
a large assembly of citizens. As these were the first colored troops
destined to the Potomac Army, their soldierly appearance and movements
were closely scanned. In passing in Review they saluted gracefully
with their Colors and by loud hurrahs that Great Emancipator of their
race. This, as President Lincoln afterwards expressed himself, was
most gratifying to him, and riveted the confidence he had in the
devotion of the Freedmen, and their efficiency to do a full share in
the struggle. According to the public press, also, the occasion
inspired the hearts of the large assembly who witnessed it, with a
great degree of favor and interest. On that same day they crossed the
Long Bridge into Virginia, and camped near Alexandria. They had now
returned under the Starry Flag to the soil of their oppressors, ready
by great achievements in the field and with their lives, to express
their sincere gratitude to "Massa Lincoln," and seal their devotion to
the Union. Much as the so-called Confederacy and its _emissaries in
the North_ feigned contempt and ridicule in the case of employing
this troop, the true sequel is that they regarded its advent with no
flattering prospects for the success of the Rebellion, but rather, as
it was, a stunning blow. Going from Alexandria by way of Fairfax
C.H., and Centerville, they arrived at Manassas Junction, and were
immediately stationed to do guard duty on the railroad. Afterwards
they were quickly marched by Rappahannock Station and over the Rapidan
to reinforce the right of the army, which had been partially broken on
that day. During the celebrated Wilderness Campaign, and up to Cold
Harbor and Old Church, their position was on the right flank of the
army. In these engagements they manifested great steadiness and
intrepidity under severe fire, and immediately proved themselves a
reliable troop. Their losses in these actions were comparatively
light. Company G, under command of Capt. A. D. Wright, joined the
First Battalion of the Regiment, June 6th, near Old Church, Va. June
12th, they marched by White House Landing and New Kent C.H., crossing
the Chickahominy at Jones' Bridge, to the James River, where they took
up a position protecting the crossing of the army. They passed over
the James on the 17th, and next day marched to the front before
Petersburg. Here they were employed by working parties in the trenches
and on fortifications, under the almost constant fire of the enemy.
The field works and the "Covered Way," leading to the front line were
mostly constructed by the colored troops.

Preparatory to the battle of July 30th, this Battalion of the 43rd
Regiment, with the addition of Co. G, moved up through the "covered
way" to the ravine at the mouth of the Mine, and there awaited the
explosion and the order to charge. Under command of the brave Brevet
Col. Hall, at that time Lieut. Col., they advanced nobly to the
charge, behaving with great coolness and gallantry, taking the works
which the enemy stubbornly tried to retain, and capturing prisoners
and colors. The lack of an ultimate and permanent triumph on that day,
was, by no means or measure, the fault of this troop, but on account
of other failures and neglects, as was afterwards reported by the
Investigating Committee. In this battle it would be difficult to
enumerate particular cases of great bravery, where all seem to vie
with each other in the brilliancy and gallantry of their achievements.
Colored non-commissioned officers fearlessly took command after their
commandants (white commissioned officers) were killed, or borne
severely wounded from the field, and led on the attack to the close.
As each brave color bearer was shot down, another and another would
immediately grasp the National emblem, all riddled with balls, and
plant it further on the enemies line. In this terrific engagement,
this Battalion, of the 43rd, had its Colors almost entirely cut up by
the fire, and the Color Staffs splintered and broken. Its casualties
were, one officer killed, ten severely wounded, including the gallant
Col. Hall, who sustained the loss of his right arm, and two taken
prisoner; and twenty-eight men killed, ninety-four wounded and twelve
missing. It was afterwards discovered that the missing were men
rendered helpless by reason of severe wounds, and whom the Rebels
deliberately put to death on the field, by bayoneting them. The
following is an extract from the official report of the Brigade
commander, relative to that battle. "The 43d Regt. U.S.C.T. charged
over the crest of the Crater, and right upon the enemies works,
carrying them, capturing a number of prisoners, a Rebel battle flag,
and re-capturing a stand of National colors. Lieut. Col. H. Seymour
Hall, commanding 43rd Regt. U.S.C.T., lost his right arm while bravely
leading his Regiment." Here on this, as on many other fields during
this war, for the sacred cause of our Republican Liberties, Free
Institutions and Union, the blood of the Anglo-Saxon and the African
mingled very freely in the full measure of a devoted offering.

Companies H, I, and K, of this Regiment, left Camp William Penn,
Philadelphia, under orders, July 11th, 1864, in a Provisional
Battalion commanded by Lieut. Col. Wagner, 88th Pa. Vols., and
proceeded by railroad to Havre-de-grace, Md. At this point Company I,
was detached, and sent to Gunpowder Bridge. The remainder of the
Battalion passed on, by transport, to Fort McHenry, and marched
through Baltimore, taking a position near Birney Barracks, in the
defences of the city, which was threatened by a bold and extensive
Rebel raid. These Companies again joined at Camp Casey, Va., and under
command of Maj. Horace Bumstead, embarked on the steamer "Highland
Light," for City Point. They arrived before Petersburg, Aug. 3rd, when
Maj. Bumstead took command of the Regiment entire. After the fight of
July 30th, and until the advance on the Weldon Railroad, this Regiment
served industriously with the spade, working in the trenches and on
almost every part of the extensive line before Petersburg; and the
impregnability of the position afterward, was, to a great measure, the
result of their toil. In the engagements of the Weldon Railroad, Aug.
19th and 20th, and Poplar Grove Church, Sept. 29th and 30th, its
losses were comparatively few. In the battle of Hatchie's Run, Oct.
27th and 28th, it held the position of skirmishers on the advance of
the 9th Corps line of battle, and most gallantly assisted in repulsing
the repeated charges of Hill's Corps. In face of a severe fire it
hastily constructed two lines of breast works. Its losses in this
action were, one officer killed and four wounded, and seven men
killed, eighteen wounded and one taken prisoner.

After portions of Longstreet's Corps had made a favorable attack on
the Union position, on the Bermuda Front, and succeeded in capturing a
part of the line, from the one year Regiments of white troops, lately
stationed there to defend it, with a number also of these troops as
prisoners, this Regiment with some others, were detached from the army
of the Potomac on the left of the line, and sent by forced marching,
across the Appomattox, to regain, if possible, the lost position. It
moved on to the line Sunday, P.M., and was instantly welcomed by
Longstreet's bravadoes, exulting yet in their recent victory, with a
storm of balls and shells, and the significant appellation of "Smoked
Yankees." But when these brave "Smoked Yankees" replied, as they did
at once, by a most brilliant charge, that made them masters of the
situation, driving Longstreet's bravadoes to their old kennels and
recovering the lost ground, the Rebel hilarity ceased. Their
stratagems afterward, massing of troops and charges, accompanied with
terrific firing, and which was persevered in almost daily and nightly
for a month; resulted only in their bitter loss, and was a conclusive
proof to them that their so-called "Smoked Yankees" were of a species
whom they could neither drive nor dismay. They continued to hold the
line against all odds, and ministered to Longstreet's hordes the most
severe castigation for their insolence it was ever their good fortune
to obtain. In an almost incredible short time the "Smoked Yankee"
became a very desirable companion, whose friendly acquaintance the
Rebel Picket would seek to cultivate, at the same time entreating him
that a mutual agreement for the better security of life and limb might
be established. The "Smoked Yankee" soldier invariably answered him:
"I obeys de orders ob de obicers. When de orders be to fire, I fires
on you, and when de orders be to charge, I charges on you, you must
den get out, Johnnie Reb."

The Regiment was now associated with the 3rd Brig. 1st Div. 25th
Corps, and was commanded by Col., now Brevet Brig. Gen., S. B. Yeoman,
who relieved Maj. Bumstead. On the night of December 10th, it was
temporally detached, and hurriedly marched, as a reinforcement, to the
North side of the James, at a point of the line near the New Market
Road. The enemy had contemplated a combined attack on the right wing
of our army, with the intention of turning it. They were, however, not
successful in their purpose, and abandoned it; and this Regiment was
remanded to its former place on the Bermuda Hundred. It remained there
until Dec. 31st, when the whole Brigade again crossed the James, and
took up a position near Fort Harrison, before Richmond.

Jan. 25th, 1865 when the Rebel Gun-boats proceeded down the River, and
engaged the Union fleet from a point in the bend, just below the upper
end of Dutch Gap Canal, intending to oblige the fleet to retire and
then capture City Point, our base of supplies, this Regiment occupied
the river bank from Cox's Landing to Dutch Gap, with a detachment also
across the Canal, that skirmished through Farra's Island, to within a
short distance of the Howlett House Battery. They also kept up such a
continuous hail of their small arms upon the enemy's Gun-boats, as to
prevent them from opening their port-holes, and consequently entirely
silenced their guns. This must be recorded as an instance where, much
to chagrin of the chivalry, our unshod infantry effectually silenced
their iron-clads.

From this time the Regiment was intimately identified with all the
movements occurring on the line, and in all the advances and charges
on the Rebel strongholds, until April 3rd, 1865, with the whole of
General Weitzel's forces, it entered triumphantly the great Babylon of
treason. "Mene, Mene, Tekel, Upharsin," written in the deserted public
palaces and on the charred timbers of its smoking buildings, was now
explicable, but the Belshazzar of the so-called Confederacy had left
his throne, a hasty fugitive, and his hosts were in a precipitate
retreat. The Union, with its Free Institutions, must and shall be
preserved, rang out all over the land, many who had once been manacled
slaves caught up these notes with a sacred joy, as they marched
victorious Freedmen in the Capitol of their Oppressors. General
Weitzel dispatched, April 3rd, A.M., "We took Richmond at 8.15, this
morning."

    "'Twas three o'clock of a Sabbath day,
    And in St. Paul's Chapel, old and gray,
    With his sad-robed wife, and others too,
    The traitor sat in his cushioned pew,
    List'ning the service halfway through,
    And praying the Lord his soul to shrive,
    On the second of April, 'Sixty-five.

    Three o'clock by the old church dial--
    Past the Sexton and up the aisle
    Walked a trooper with trembling knee,
    Holding a letter from R. E. Lee
    to Jefferson Davis, P.S.C.
    "Up," it said, "out of Richmond drive
    Ere the third of April, 'Sixty-five."

    Twelve at night, and the crashing shell
    Drown the tone of the steeple bells,
    Scared at the thickening thunder peals,
    Hurrying feet and whirling wheels,
    Flee at the fleeing traitor's heels,
    And none to stay them are left alive
    By the third of April, 'Sixty-five'.

    Six in the morning, sunrise red,
    Showed long rows of the Rebel dead,
    Tired Battalion and torn Brigade
    Quivered to Weitzel's cannonade;
    And, half in fury and half afraid,
    Swore for their City still to strive
    On the third of April 'Sixty-five.'

    Eight o'clock, and the battle call
    Sounds at the inmost bulwark wall.
    Hoarser the Rebels' shouts reply--
    Their guns are empty, their lips are dry,
    And hundreds who vowed to win or die
    Sullenly yield themselves alive
    On the third of April 'Sixty-five.

    Eight and a quarter the strife is o'er,
    Blind with powder and red with gore,
    Richmond's garrison, surly and dumb,
    Stand, while by them with bugle and drum
    General Weitzel's Freedmen come;
    And through their streets the cavalry drive
    On the third of April 'Sixty-five.

    And forth from gateway, alley and lane,
    Glad slaves run trooping, a swarthy train,
    And martyrs from Libby's Prison hole
    Laugh and cheer for their long "parole,"
    And a myriad of welcomes heavenward roll,
    As our host in the Rebel-hold arrive
    On the third of April 'Sixty-five.

    Shout, ye millions of brave and free,
    O'er flying Davis, and fallen Lee,
    Honor to Weitzel and Sheridan;
    Honor to Grant, who laid the plan;
    Glory to God, who helpeth man,
    For under his might our cause did thrive
    On the third of April 'Sixty-five."

The importunate cry of the nation,--"On to Richmond," being answered
so successfully by Freedmen clad in blue, must and will appear as a
significant fact in the history of the war.

After the surrender of Lee, and in anticipation of the expedition
southward, this Regiment marched back to Camp Lincoln, near City
Point. May 30th it embarked on the steamer "Atlanta," and proceeding
by the Ocean and Gulf routes, arrived at Brazos Santiago, Texas, on
the Gulf of Mexico, June 23rd. During this expedition it lost, by
death, one man, whose body was committed to the great deep. On its
march thence to Brownsville, it passed over Taylor's battle grounds of
the Mexican war, Palo Alto and Resaca de la Palma. These preserve some
marks of the conflict, but the achievement of our arms then, has been
greatly surpassed, by victories on fields recently obtained. It
camped, finally, on the bank of the Rio Grande River, opposite the
city of Matamoras, Mexico. The flourishing blockade trade conducted by
the adherents of Maximilian, on the one hand, according to the French
version of neutrality, and by the so-called Confederacy on the other,
was now interrupted by the presence of United States Troops. His
Majesty, in his plea for imperial recognition by the United States,
will not forget to importune by reason of his friendly services during
the war.

The Regiment was ordered North, for final discharge, and returning as
far as New Orleans, after waiting there for transportation, it
embarked Nov. 9th on the steamer Merrimac, having other passengers
besides. After a considerable distance at sea, this vessel sprung a
leak. The water gained so rapidly, as, in a very short time, to put
out the fires, and stop the engine. She now depended entirely on her
sails for motive power. The case was a most critical one. Horses had
to be thrown overboard, as well as a large amount of goods. The pumps
of the main engine were useless, and the other pumps on deck were
discovered, certainly by a criminal neglect, to be out of order.
Buckets, pails, kettles and barrels were all mustered for bailing,
which was conducted through two of the hatchways, fore and aft of the
engine, and for the management of which the Regiment was divided into
two reliefs. This systematized work was continued day and night for
sixty-five hours successively, barely keeping even with the water,
until the steamer was run upon the bar, at the mouth of the
Mississippi. For the credit of the brave men, and in behalf of the
endurance of the race, it ought to be recorded, that they worked
cheerfully and well, during all those weary and anxious hours. The
Regiment was landed again at New Orleans. After a gratuitous issue of
clothing by order of Gen. Sheridan, to supply, in part, the loss
incident to this perilous trip, it embarked in the steamer "Costa
Rica," arrived at New York, Nov. 26th, and was finally discharged at
Philadelphia, Nov. 30th, 1865. Its casualties in service were,
officers killed three, wounded eleven, and three discharged by reason
of wounds; and men killed, died of wounds and disease, three hundred
and six, and missing one hundred and ninety-six.




THE COLORED TROOP.


The object of the Government, in the case of commandants of colored
troops, was to secure officers of acknowledged military talent,
experience, and unexceptionably good moral character. It therefore
instituted the Examining Board for Officers, under the Presidency of
General Casey. The officers assigned to commands in this service,
entered upon the duties of their respective positions in this regular
way. Many of them advanced, battle-scarred, step by step from the
ranks. Some were previously connected with the regular army, and
others with the volunteer forces. Their ability, bravery and
gentlemanly character, in the strictest sense, produced a happy effect
upon the troop. When it is considered that in the face of threatenings
of a merciless death by the Rebels, should the fortunes of war place
them in their hands, and against a current of prejudice, extant almost
everywhere, and the whispered doubts and fears even of friends to the
cause, they assumed command of this troop in its experimental state,
and led it on to victory; their high-toned and unselfish patriotism,
in this respect, is only equaled by the bravery and gallantry of their
services. They are also the fit witnesses of the endurance, efficiency
and bravery of the troop as attested on the field, and their
susceptibility of true progress in intellectual culture. This troop in
military discipline and efficiency bore a very favorable comparison
with any other. Their standard was not simply passable, but excellent.
In battle they were remarkable for their great coolness and courage.
The school system inaugurated for their benefit, and which was
conducted in many commands, in the camp and on the field, in its
result was a decided refutation to the argument, that this race could
not be improved.

Now, however, by more than sixty thousand sons of Liberty, of African
descent, than whom none other fought with greater gallantry, numbered
with the patriot dead, and by the many thousand heroic survivors,
whose maimed bodies and torn and tattered battle flags, tell how
fields were won, what is enjoined on the Nation? This fact alone
forbids that any vestige of the former state of the oppression of this
race should remain. It requires another positive duty. What are
Freedmen without citizenship? Some doubt that they have sufficient
knowledge to participate in this right. The presumptive judges, with
their emissaries, who have forfeited this right to themselves, and are
also culprits, blamable and guilty for any lack of such knowledge, in
the case of this loyal race, entertain the doubt; and their weak faith
cannot truly be shrouded in deeper uncertainty than that of every
intelligent patriot, who contemplates the true exercise of the right
of suffrage and representation by those whose hands are yet red with
the blood of our noble slain. It is also said the liberated race, in
their new relation, will not prove themselves industrious citizens.
This argument by the indolent drones of the States in rebellion, and
whose very sustenance was derived from the unpaid toil of this people,
turns upon them with a peculiar reactionary force. We doubt not, it
will be an easier task to elevate to a degree of intelligence, virtue
and industry, and to imbue with the spirit of our Institutions as
worthy citizens these Freedmen, thousands of whom pressed forward to
the support of the Government, in the dark period of our country's
history, than by any process of legislation that cleanses only the
outside of the platter, to attempt to infuse loyalty into the hearts
of those lately in armed rebellion, and in the name of the public
peace, and in honor to Republican Liberty, to admit the Catalines and
Judas Iscariots to the Senate and Congress of the United States. In a
disregard of justice to the memory of our patriot dead, white and
colored, such legislation would be worse than treason. No man, who
voluntarily raised his hand against the flag, upheld by our patriot
martyrs in the field, should ever participate in our legislation. If
the Republic will be true to itself, it must and will be also to those
who were, and are so eminently true to it. Punish treason, and reward
loyalty.






End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Forty-third regiment United States
Colored Troops, by Jeremiah Marion Mickley

